[Music]
I think this kind of AI capback cycle
still has room here.
>> Right now, you got to be bullish.
>> How many articles are you going to read
about a bubble in AI and not start to be
a little bit worried? A lot of the
speculative fervor has been outside the
mega cap tech areas within the market.
>> I do think we're overlooking some of the
flags that have been waving. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience, worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, within 1% of alltime
highs, President Trump teasing the
prospect of a good deal with China as
earnings from the financials help to
calm credit market fears. Anthropic and
Google in talks on a multi-billion
dollar cloud deal. best stock in
Shanghai this morning.
>> What this really highlights is just how
interconnected the AI story has become.
You have companies that invest in other
companies that then make deals with
those companies that also are connected
to other companies. So Google and
Anthropic have an investment
partnership. Now you have an
interconnected relationship between the
two of them. And guess what? Amazon is
also an investor in Anthropic. Again,
this question of how self-reerential is
this AI story becoming?
>> Alphabet in the pre-market higher by
1.4%. those earnings from that company
about a week away. We've had earnings
from one company in particular I want to
talk about Mattel. Mattel's getting
absolutely hammered. Let's talk about
the price of uncertainty that might be
an asset going into negotiations with
China. It's not in corporate America.
Retailers are holding back.
>> Retailers are holding back and they are
struggling right now when it comes to
how they are dealing with the supply
orders from other retailers now being
all pushed into the fourth quarter
because people are realizing they're
going to need to have toys on the
shelves when it comes to Christmas. When
they talk about tariffs, this is what
the CEO had to say. I would say it's all
about that and that this year is
unusual. They are suffering at the hands
of sky-high tariffs and they are even
pushing the prices onto consumers, but
they say consumers are still buying.
>> Mattel down 6%. That disruption starting
to come to the surface.
>> Yeah. And they're saying that people
didn't order as many toys for Christmas
because of the uh potential increases or
delays coming from China. It just
highlights what difficulty it is for
specific sector because you've seen
other places really adapt and adjust
just fine. The toy business is so
heavily dependent on China. Where are
your Barbies made? China. Where are your
hot rods made in China? And so it shows
how there are pockets of disruption that
still haven't come fully to the four.
And when you see those, they are
punished.
>> Let's talk about pockets of stress,
pockets of credit stress. Because
elsewhere, solid earnings, Western
Alliance, Capital One. If you expected
to see some real credit issues,
broad-based systemic problems, you'd
expect it to show up in the banks, you'd
expect to see it in the credit card
companies.
>> Yeah. So, uh, Capital One came out with
blockbuster earnings on the heel of
their discovery tie-up. When it comes to
Western Alliance, this is the company
that always gets beaten up, right? It's
the bank that always has the malfeasants
and they did have higher than expected
uh credit charges and write offs because
of some of the fraud that they were
talking about but still bang up
earnings. So can you really look at that
as your expectation of weakness as your
expectation of anxiety? H people are
kind of fading on that.
>> Those names trading firmer after the
close. Two to watch going into the open.
Equity futures so far this morning
positive by around about a tenth of 1%.
Coming up this hour we'll catch up with
Max Kner of HSBC with stocks sitting
their all-time highs. Ed Mills of
Raymond James with US China trade talks
in question and Jason Basin of City on
the mixed results from Netflix. We begin
this hour with stocks holding steady
with more earnings on deck. Max Kentner
of HSBC writing further likely strength
in US equities should be enough to
prompt a broader risk on move. Max joins
us now for more. Max, good morning. Sir,
you've talked a lot about how the bar
for growth is low enough that we can
deliver some upside surprises. Can you
say the same thing about earnings into
next week with big tech on deck?
Yeah, good morning. Thanks for having
me. Look, I I do think so. I think
actually uh the bar when we look at
Xtech for example is extremely low. Look
at when we headed into the earning
season, you guys were just talking about
banks and about the financials. We had a
sort of minus 4% quarter overquarter
earnings growth expected from consensus.
So when you exclude tech actually
consensus was saying that earnings are
going to go down sequentially and bear
in mind that's a nominal number whereas
you know all the top down GDP proxies
GDP now all of the stuff was trending
around 3 to 4% for Q3 in real terms so
we're sort of talking maybe 6% normal
GDP growth and consensus are saying
earnings are going to go down that
really means there is a genuine risk
that actually the earnings beat rate not
just in tech but in the broader market
the earnings beat will be even better
than in the second quarter and that
would then be the biggest earnings beat
rate since co. So for all those people
like oh you know we're all just firing
on one cylinder it's just tech. No it's
not just tech. In fact we are seeing
fraud based and underestimated strength
elsewhere as well.
>> Certainly saw that with the banks last
week on Wall Street. Max we are seeing
though pockets of stress pockets of
credit stress pockets of disruption. We
saw that with Mattel. We saw that with
some of the issues over the past month
with first brands withricolor. Max,
what's your approach now? You've been
bullish through most of this year,
through a lot of volatility. Is it still
a market cap index or are you going to
be a little bit more nuanced into year
end?
>> No, look, I I think it is a market where
you have to be more nuanced. Uh when you
look at the consumer side of things, for
example, probably most of the
discretionary stuff is fine, but when
you look at the consumer staple stuff,
you know, the consumer good stuff, most
of that is important. most of those
companies there's a lot of companies
that are struggling that really are
seeing costs rising and that are
struggling to pass on those higher
costs. So on the consumer staples side
I'd really be cautious but when we look
at the banks when we look at
particularly things like industrials for
example I do think actually that is
still an area where I would focus on
aside from tech. Tech for me still
remains that core holding because I do
think heading into 2026 what people are
underestimating really is the ability
through the one big beautiful bill the
ability to expense capex straight away
that does apply then to AI capex as well
and that of course means that any kind
of AI capex that you plan for perhaps
the next two three years you've got
every incentive to pull that capex
forward and that should mean that those
capex expectations on the AI on the
hyperscaler like apps are still too
conservative for 2026 and that heading
into the earning season for tech
companies is another potential upside
catalyst.
>> So how much Max do you look at this and
say I don't care about the circularity
of this the idea that uh Amazon and
Alphabet are increasingly hedged to
anthropic. Open AAI is absolutely
central to every single company because
they seem to be making deals with
everyone. The fact that they're all
interconnected, one bad report could
send the whole sector down. you just
dismissed that as sort of not feasible
given the likely uh investment
trajectory. Is that right?
>> Yeah, I might be oversimplifying things
here, but when I read this the first
time a couple weeks ago with the open
eye with 100 billion investment, I
thought to myself, I read the the the
story twice and I thought to myself,
isn't that just normal B2B? Wouldn't we,
you know, we look at sort of uh let's
say Walmart, Target, some of the grocery
grocerers, they've got their suppliers,
the suppliers then are invested in other
suppliers. you know that they're getting
their their suppliers from the other
suppliers and all this sort of stuff. So
I'm I'm not really particularly you know
particularly convinced about that. To me
that sounds just like an ecosystem.
Yeah, a fairly closed ecosystem but of
course you know you're not going to go
let's let's use the grocerers. You're
not going to go uh Nvidia or open eye is
not going to go to Walmart and like oh
yeah you know what we need 100 billion
of sandwiches. No, we're not going to
get that. Yeah. So I don't think it's a
particularly spectacularly bearish thing
or dangerous thing that it is a fairly
closed ecosystem and they're sort of
feeding off each other. That's just
normal B2B I would say. Is there a risk
for AI capex for the AI scalers?
Yes, I do think so. But I think not in
the next 6 to 12 months. The next 6 to
12 months again with that ability to
expense capex straight away that
actually introduces even more upside
risk on the capex side. The risk I think
then comes maybe into 2027 that maybe
we've seen so much capex pulled forward
that then actually the delta going into
2027 in terms of AI capex might not even
be lower but it actually might be
turning negative but that of course that
is minimum six if not even 12 months too
early to play.
>> How much is the uh ongoing rally that
we've seen really bolstered by what
we've seen in the bond market? We've
seen 10-year yields in the US fall to
the lowest levels going back to October
of 2024 on this expectation that the Fed
will cut on this expectation that the
economy is softening. How much is that
underpinning your optimism and the
optimism in markets?
>> Yeah, it depends. I think it depends.
When you look at obviously uh uh stuff
like nonprofitable tech, when you look
at stuff like small caps, that very much
I think is underpinnitted by the idea
that we're not heading quite into a
recession, that growth overall is
actually fine. But there are these
pockets of weakness. There are these
pockets of labor market weakness and
labor market cracks. And that renders,
you know, that renders rate cuts
justified. And that of course then spurs
strength in some of the, let's say, some
of the more uh niche kind of corners of
the market. The overall market, I think
it's not really underpinning a lot of
our opinion because, you know, let's
face it, we've got a terminal rate price
then of around 285 for the beginning of
2027. If we were to move, let's say if
we were to cut price one cut out from
285 to 310, that is barely above the
long run dot. If that is then coming
because of better growth, perhaps
because of better payrolls or better
earnings, if that is a is a result of
better uh fundamentals, you know, that
is still a very very doubbish number
where the market will thinks we
eventually end up and the higher number
is driven by better growth. So it it
much more then is a a case of well we
need to rotate perhaps away from the
Russell from nonprofitable tech more
towards large cap cyclicals but it's not
really something that's underpinning our
view overall.
>> Max do you need to rethink the whole AI
trade at some point when these robots
and the whole AI industry starts taking
jobs? Report yesterday in the New York
Times that Amazon plans to replace more
than half a million jobs with robots.
Doesn't that isn't that going to impact
growth and the macroeconomics of the
United States?
>> Yeah, look, I mean there are two things
that I want to say. The first one is I
think people are at the moment looking
at AI only as a bearish thing. The first
one of course is which I'm sure you guys
have talked about at length is AI is a
bubble. It's just like 2000. So you kind
of have to go through well actually you
know look at Amazon. You just mentioned
Amazon AWS makes more revenue in the
last 12 months than 468 other companies
in the S&P. So it is not like 2000 they
are printing hard cash as if there is no
tomorrow. That's number one. Number two
is I feel like with AI there is mostly
for bearish people there's this
narrative that basically either return
on investment assumptions are way too
rosy that's never going to be fulfilled.
So therefore is AI is bound to
disappoint or if those return on
investment assumptions are fulfilled if
the productivity gains come. Well then
AI is going to come for your jobs and
that is also bad. So I'm kind of sit
there. like oh great so we're all buying
AI and tech stocks but actually the
whole market is wrong because whatever
happens it's going to be bad I'm not
really sold on that and the third thing
on that is when we look at job cuts so
far you know again the narrative is well
you know AI is already coming for your
job look at job cuts look at challenger
job cuts if you look at job cuts by
reason actually there is barely more
than 1% of job cuts year to date that
are due to AI last year it was also
about 1.1% so in fact you've got about
99% % of job cuts at the moment because
of different reasons different reasons
than AI. So I feel the narrative doesn't
really stack up with with the data at
the moment at least.
>> But Max, there is something to all this.
I think we should discuss it at least so
far this year. If I told someone all the
payrolls data for the year ahead at the
start of the year, they would have been
hopelessly bearish for 2025 and would
have missed out on a massive rally. Max,
I think that raises the question just
how relevant jobs data is to the broader
equity market at the moment and whether
that dichotomy can persist into 26.
>> Yeah, I think that's a very good point
because going into next year, bear in
mind um yes, if you had told someone the
payroll data, they probably would have
freaked out, right, in hindsight. But if
you told them the uh payroll numbers and
on top of that then the break even
payroll numbers how the break even
payroll numbers have gone from almost
250,000 just about 2 and a half years
ago to pretty much probably zero by the
end of this year then you know that puts
lower break uh lower payroll numbers
very much into perspective. So we've got
to be careful about that where I do
think there is some danger really
particularly in the first half of the
year what happens if we get a sort of a
40 50k number on payroll. nothing really
spectacular. In fact, just like you
said, a number that, you know, 69 months
ago would have made us freak out. If we
do get that, but actually the break even
payroll number is already close to zero,
that might be enough to not just keep
the unemployment rate stable, but in
fact make the unemployment rate decline.
And that to me is is a real real hawkish
risk that is a risk to all the steepness
that people have on, you know, because
it whipsy really the front end bear
flatten it. It's it's a risk to the EM
trade. It's a risk to the short dollar
trade. You know, it's it's a lot of that
that really is one of the key risks I
think for the first half. Not for the
next three months because we have seen
warm factor go up and all this. The next
three months still a bit more weakness.
I think for the for the first half that
is certainly a risk to watch.
>> That would send heads spinning. That's
for sure, Max. Thank you, sir. Max Ker
of HSBC need some jobs data first.
That'd be nice. gone a few months
without it already
>> which is the reason why things like the
Philadelphia manufacturing yesterday
sent the market into a tail spin because
we don't have anything else it's true
we're talking about these big picture
shifts trying to look into the dark that
suddenly is even darker and this is the
really difficulty right now do you just
ignore it because a lot of people are
just ignoring it and bidding prices up
on stocks and that sort of is the
conclusion in markets
>> paid to ignore it at least so far that
can change can change quickly equity
futures on the S&P positive by a tenth
of 1% with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Yahara Arnand. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump says
the upcoming meeting with Chinese
President Xi would yield a good deal on
trade. Still, Trump said the possibility
remains that the meeting could fail to
materialize. Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant is expected to meet with his
Chinese counterparts to discuss a
deescalation of trade tensions later
this week ahead of the Trump sheet
talks. Meanwhile, peace talks between
Russia and Ukraine are showing signs of
stalling after a White House sources
said there are no plans for a meeting
between President Trump and President
Putin. The leaders had been scheduled to
meet in Budapest within the coming
weeks. The Kremlin on Tuesday maintained
that Russia is sticking to its original
demands, including Ukraine seed full
control of the Donatk region. and
Netflix shares falling 6% in the
pre-market after the company reported
thirdarter earnings that were hurt by a
tax dispute with Brazil. The company had
to pay over $600 million to settle a
multi-year tax dispute but said it would
have beaten forecasts if not for the
expense. Netflix's outlook for the
current quarter is largely in line with
Wall Street estimates. Dr. Bloomberg
brief John
>> Yhierra. Thank you. And that appears to
be the disappointment there. The outlook
in line the stock is down by about 6%.
And up next on the program, President
Trump looking for leverage
>> right now. As of November 1st, China
will have about 155%
tariff put on it and I don't think it's
sustainable for them.
>> So either it's going to be a good deal
or 155% tariffs. Ed Mills of Rayma James
joins us next live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Three days no losses on the S&P 500
within 1% of all-time highs. Futures up
this morning by a tenth of 1%. Under
Sylvanas this morning, President Trump
looking for leverage.
>> Right now, as of November 1st, China
will have about 155%
tariff put on it. and I don't think it's
sustainable for them. So, I want to I
want to be nice to China. But China's
been very rough with us over the years
cuz we had presidents that weren't smart
from a business standpoint. Uh some were
good politicians, some weren't even good
politicians, but they allowed China to
take advantage of us and every other
country.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Trade tensions between the United States
and China remaining high. President
Trump saying he expects to reach a good
trade deal with China, but his meeting
with President Xi Jinping in South Korea
next week may not happen. Tyler Kendall
joins us now for more. Good morning,
Tyler. So, I think all of our heads are
spinning here. Is this meeting happening
or not?
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. Well,
President Trump cautioned that the
highly anticipated meeting with Chinese
President Xi Jinping could still fall
apart. Now to be sure, the White House
has not confirmed a specific date or
time for the potential meeting, but as
you mentioned, it is widely expected to
take place on the sidelines of the Apex
summit in South Korea next week. Now,
one meeting that we are banking on
happening is that the Treasury
Secretary, Scott Besson, is set to meet
face tof face with his Chinese
counterparts in Malaysia over the
weekend. That is widely seen as the
precursor and could give us some clues
heading into next week. And whether or
not President Trump does sit down with
Xi Jinping. Now, if the leaders do meet,
our analysts at Bloomberg Economics say
their base case here is that we're
likely looking at another 30-day
extension to the trade truth set to
expire on November 10th instead of a
tangible deal. Now, that doesn't mean
that we wouldn't get some sort of update
or movement when it comes to the top
friction points. Of course, we're
watching closely what happens with
export controls, whether or not there's
a loosening from either side, and also,
of course, US agricultural purchases,
whether China makes any sort of
commitments as soybean farmers are set
to receive a round of economic
assistance later this week. But that's
really just the tip of the spear here.
Of course, there are a lot of different
issues on the table. everything from
investment to potential Boeing
purchases, fentanyl, Taiwan, even Tik
Tok, and of course, President Trump's
threat looming over all of this that
there could be 155% tariff if he's
unhappy with the deal. Now, John,
despite the tariffs in place and the
threat of more tariffs, new data is
showing us that China's export market to
the US is proving resilient, at least in
the short term. Exports to the US are
down 17% this year, but firms still
report spending more than $317 billion
worth of goods to the US through the
third quarter.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. Down in Washington DC, Ed
Mills of Rayma James writes the
following. The big question is how much
beyond the status quo can get negotiated
and has previously banned US technology
about to get the green light for the
Chinese market. Ed joined us now for
more. Ed, I think you're right on the
money. What is and isn't on the table in
these negotiations? what is and isn't
going to be part of any potential deal.
>> Yeah, John, I think everything is on the
table. I think what we're seeing is that
if China went into this with the status
quo, China would come out with the
status quo. So, you're seeing a playbook
we've seen time and time again. And
Trump is moving the goalpost, ramping up
the pressure. She is doing the same. She
and China has come to Trump 2.0 much
more prepared. They are sending a
message. We're willing to do things that
could be mutually assured economic
destruction. So come to the table and
talk. I do think the number one thing
that she cares about uh in these
conversations are these tech controls,
the semiconductors and semicap equipment
that has been banned going into China.
Um the US policy is shifting here, John,
and it is now the default kind of desire
of the US government to have the US
technology be the default full stack
globally. And they don't think they can
kind of shut out the Chinese market. So
there's more room for negotiation here
than I think most investors realize.
>> Ed, is China basically taking this
hardline strategy and there's been some
reporting about this because they think
Trump will fold.
>> I think it's they think Trump will fold
or they will think that Trump will give
them more if they push for more. Uh
Amory, you go back to uh earlier this
year, it was their restrictions on rare
earths that got Trump to walk back those
145% tariffs. uh we were dangerously
close to having real negative impact on
our industrial production here in the
United States. And while we're signing
these different critical mineral deals,
rare earth deals, it's going to be 5
plus years before we're able to get most
of these. So, China does have some cards
that they can play. And as they play
them, Trump has been willing to
negotiate more. They view Trump as a
transactor and so to get him to
transact, you got to push him in that
right direction. Do you find it suspect
that China hasn't confirmed any meeting?
>> Uh it's been the way things have
happened all year long. What we have
seen is uh the US delegation comes out
and they give a readout and then China
confirms nothing. And then what we've
seen is that everything that the US side
has said has actually followed through.
Um I do think this meeting happens. I do
think part of this is that she does not
want to appear to be weak. uh some of
the calculus that China has had is that
what Trump wanted the most was to have
this meeting. So they gave him a
meeting. I'm also okay with the fact
that we've already set up a home and
away after this. Trump is supposed to go
to Beijing. She is supposed to come to
the United States. So that takes away a
little bit of the pressure here. Uh that
hasn't been confirmed necessarily by the
Chinese side either. uh but we can get
some flourish uh big announcements
coming out but really working on these
details to be determined later on which
has happened on every other trade deal
so far this year
>> and it seems like they're both buying
time both the Chinese and the United
States and trying to rearrange some of
the supply chains and the technological
backdrop in the meantime I just wonder
what the negotiating chips are going to
be to buy time how much Taiwan's going
to come into play how much the Russia
Ukraine war is going to come into play
do you have a sense of how much that's
on the table if there is some sort of
meeting.
>> Yeah. So, Trump has said that uh he
expects there to be some level of
conversation about Taiwan. Um I do think
that this is obviously the the big focus
of a lot of investors and I get a ton of
questions about that at Raymond James.
Um Trump has said that they don't have a
plan to invade. I think trying to bring
down a little bit of those tensions. uh
the last meeting between a US president
and she uh occurred at the last apex
summit and she supportedly said that
there was no kind of need for a military
intervention as long as a peaceful
reunification occurs. I do think that a
lot of folks look at that Trump as a
transactor to say is Taiwan more on the
table than we could normally see. Uh
beyond that you know Trump has also been
very concerned about the agricultural
purchases of China. So can China make
some kind of agricultural purchases make
that commitment for a trillion dollars
of investment in the United States and
therefore we can send them those
semiconductors and that semicap
equipment especially if we're moving to
this idea that US technology needs to be
the default technology. Uh those are the
things that I'm watching here in these
negotiations. Lisa
>> Ed appreciate your time Ed Mills of
Raymond James. I think we also have to
tackle the underlying premise here as
well. The sustainability of the current
tariffs. China's on course to run a
record trade surplus in 2025. Even with
these tariffs,
>> and it's largely because of exports to
the rest of the world, but even in the
United States, you see, yes, exports to
the US from China are down 17%. They're
still at the same levels as 2020.
They're higher than 2017 and 2016. So,
you start looking at what we're actually
seeing. It is not a decoupling by any
means. Equity futures so far this
morning positive by about a tenth of 1%
around a quarter of 1% away from record
highs at a close just yesterday. Up next
on the program we'll catch up with
Steven Cook of the Council on Foreign
Relations with a fragile ceasefire
holding in the Middle East. Plus Danny
has your morning movers. Google jumping
on news of a massive cloud deal.
[Music]
Equity futures on the S&P very close to
alltime highs. We're positive by around
about a tenth of 1%. The equity picture
looks a little something like this. The
NASDAQ 100 down by not even a tenth.
We'll talk about Netflix in just a
moment. In the bond market, twos, tens,
30s, waiting patiently for inflation
data on Friday, and seemingly everyone's
preparing to ignore it because this
Federal Reserve is on course to cut
interest rates a week today. Your 2-year
bond yield at 34487. And maybe the Bank
of England might join the party. 4 days
of sterling weakness. The UK delivering
inflation data a little bit earlier on
this morning. Guess when that dropped
and see it on the chart, 133 on cable.
Inflation in the UK coming in softer
than expected. that currency pair down
this morning by 0.5%. That's the cross
asset picture this morning in the
market. Let's get you some single names,
some morning movers. Let's cross over to
Danny for more. Hey Danny,
>> John, you promised Netflix. Let's start
there. Dragging the overall index down.
Shares down 6.2%. A couple problems
here. One, they cited a tax dispute with
Brazil that's going to cost them over
$600 million. To be fair, they said that
that won't extend into the future. So
why are we down 6%? Maybe expectations
were just higher for Netflix. They
mostly reported in line slight beats in
some areas, but investors were expecting
more with shows like K-pop, Demon
Hunter, movies rather, that seemingly
would have boosted them even more. So, a
tough morning for Netflix in the
pre-market. Also, in terms of
disappointing earnings, there was Texas
Instruments, those shares down nearly
8%, it was a lackluster forecast. Does
it mean that the chip industry, the
outlook for their analog chips is
sputtering? The CEO talked about on the
call the fact that industrial clients
are in wait and see mode because of
government policy around tariffs. So
that's uh really pressuring them. Tech
that is doing well today. Google
certainly up there. Bloomberg sources
saying that they are in talks to inca a
deal with Anthropic to give Anthropic
access to more cloud computing power.
And Google's own specific chip shares
are up 2%. Should also be noted that
Google is already an investor in
Anthropic as is Amazon. John
>> Danny, thank you. We'll come back to
that story in just a moment. On our
radar out this morning, President Donald
Trump saying tariffs on Chinese goods
could rise to 155% next month if no
trade deal is reached. President Trump
adding a meeting with Chinese leader Xi
Jinping slated for next week may not
happen. Elsewhere, regional banks
provided more relief over credit
concerns. Western Alliance posting a
double earnings beat for the third
quarter. Capital One reporting an 80%
surge in net income while announcing a
$16 billion stock buyback. And finally,
to build on the story that Danny
mentioned, AI startup Anthropic looking
to strike a multi-billion dollar deal
with Google. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that Google will provide cloud
computing services to Anthropic to
accelerate machine learning. Both sides
declining to comment.
>> And this raises a question about again
the sort of circularity of some of the
industry and going back to what Max Kent
was saying, look, you don't expect them
to go to Walmart to buy sandwiches.
They're going to go to each other to buy
the equipment that they need. At the
same time, if you do hinge a lot of the
valuations on the need for computing
power that currently is the case, how
vulnerable are we to another deepseek
moment? Deep seek seems so far away, but
what if there is more efficiency? What
if there is a new technology and all of
a sudden you have all this investment in
very specific labor intensive, energy
intensive uh endeavors? These are some
of the questions that people have, but
they're looking past it because so far
it's been a bonanza.
>> We moved past that shock pretty quickly
and got back to spend, spend, spend.
Alphabet, by the way, whipsed in the
last 24 hours. Yesterday got hammered.
Some real worries about OpenAI and a new
search engine being a direct competitor
to that company. That's the existential
risk that some of these companies at the
moment are confronting.
>> It's hard to imagine this, but Open AI
and Chat GPT only came to the four in
2022. It launched this incredible rush
toward the idea of artificial
intelligence and machine learning in a
way that has been absolutely
transformational, at least in the stock
market. And it raises a question. Is
there someone else who could come in and
do the same thing? Especially given how
competitive the field is getting.
>> Alphabet bouncing back. The stock is
higher by about 2%. Let's turn to
politics and regional politics. In the
Middle East, Vice President JD Vance
meeting the Israeli prime minister in
Jerusalem after saying he remains
optimistic about the future of a
ceasefire between Israel and Hamas.
Joining us now from Tel Aviv is
Bloomberg's Ethan Broner. Ethan, welcome
to the program and thanks for making
some time for us. How hopeful are people
in the region? How fragile is this
truce?
>> Well, it's very fragile. What's
interesting is how invested the Trump
administration is in holding on to it
and making it work. So, as you said, the
vice president has been here. He's just
finished his meeting with Prime Minister
Netanyahu. Earlier, we had Jared
Kushner, Trump's son-in-law, and Steve
Witkoff as special envoy. And later this
week, we expect Secretary of State um
Marco Rubio to come. So this is a
surprising parade of very senior US
officials who are basically babysitting
this thing trying to get make sure that
the Israelis don't overstep in
retaliating against Hamas and also
sending a message to Hamas and the
region that this is not a one-off that
they're very serious about it. Will that
be enough?
>> We don't know.
>> Ethan, do you and the team get the sense
that regional partners are equally as
invested as the United States in
maintaining this truce?
H
>> difficult to tell. I think that we have
the uh the crown prince of Saudi Arabia
is going to Washington to see the
president quite soon. That's a very
interesting development. We know that
the Amiratis are very interested. We
know that Qatar is interested. You know,
as invested, it's hard to say, but
invested and certainly via their links
with the president and his sons and
their all of their business interests
playing a role as well. So, I do think
that the president has done a pretty
good job of getting everybody focused on
it. It's just we're looking at uh you
know, Hamas is a pretty complicated and
unpredictable organization and Israel
has been traumatized for 2 years. So,
these two players are difficult to
predict.
>> We're in a period of intense diplomacy
and it continues. Ethan, thanks for
jumping on. Thank you, sir. Ethan Broner
there of Bloomberg. Steven Kirk of the
Council on Foreign Relations joins us
now for more. Stephen, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> You've described this as continuous
diplomacy. What's the importance of that
in a moment like this?
>> Well, look, the president, the secretary
of state, the vice president, Steve
Whit, everybody is there continuously,
continuously, continuously to hold the
Israelis feet to the fire on this. Uh,
President Biden tried this, but Prime
Minister Netanyahu just wasn't afraid of
Secretary of State Tony Blinken at the
time. Well, he's afraid of Donald Trump.
And Donald Trump is insistent that this
20point plan get implemented. And the
way to do it is to keep sending senior
American officials speaking on behalf of
the president of the United States to
ensure that Netanyahu and his coalition
partners don't wiggle out of this thing.
>> But on that point, isn't it because of
how the president has spoken to BB
behind the scenes in a way that Biden
would never?
>> Oh, absolutely. I mean, I think there's
some benefit here to the fact that uh
President Trump is purely transactional
and doesn't have the kind of ideological
commitment to Israel that President
Biden had. So when he says everybody's
going to be treated fairly, you're going
to give me and I'm going to do for you.
That's really important because
Netanyahu hasn't been treated like that
by any president before. And I think
he's concerned that if he crosses
President Trump, which he has done and
paid for it, the Qatar strike was one of
them. But that cultural strike actually
helped get to the point where we are.
But if he crosses President Trump,
there'll be consequences for Israel.
>> Who is running the Gaza Strip right now?
>> Uh the IDF is running the Gaza Strip
right now. And there are atomized groups
of Hamas terrorists who are also running
the Gaza Strip. We've seen terrible
video of Hamas taking it out on its
opponents in the Gaza Strip. Many, many
Palestinian opponents, tribesmen have
been killed by Hamas since this
ceasefire. Um they are patrolling the
streets and Israel of course continues
to control 53% of the Gaza Strip.
>> Does anybody else want to send troops?
Any other country?
This is a very very important question.
We have heard that the Egyptians are
volunteering to lead this force. We've
heard some about Azeri troops. We've
heard something about Indonesian troops.
None of this has materialized, however,
and there are all kinds of questions
about who what are the rules of
engagement for such a force? Are they
going to be the ones to actually disarm
Hamas? What happens when Hamas militants
fire on an Indonesian soldier and kills
that Indonesian soldier? None of these
questions have been worked out. All we
know about this international
stabilization force is that there are
200 US soldiers and officers outside the
Gaza Strip who are there to coordinate a
force that doesn't yet exist.
>> Why is JD Vance the person who's over
there right now?
>> It's a really interesting question. I
think JD Vance um has at times raised
questions about Israel's conduct, not
just in Gaza, but around the region. And
I think this is another effort on the
part of the president to show that
everybody's going to be treated fairly.
So despite all the smiles and JD Vance
saying this this is going to be a
durable piece and and and the ceasefire
is working. I think behind the scenes
Vance is there to apply pressure on
Netanyahu to make sure that the Israeli
government sticks to its obligations.
>> You mentioned the strike from September
in Doha. There's some debate about the
importance of that strike. Why was that
pivotal in your mind?
>> Oh, I think it was very very important.
One, it didn't succeed. I think had it
succeeded, we would be in a different
place right now. But the president
claims he was very unhappy about it and
Prime Minister Netino took a ton of
criticism even from his Arab allies. So
he was really on the defensive. At the
same time, it really scared the cuties.
And so the president took both of those
things and made something out of it. A
softened up Netanyahu was vulnerable to
uh Trump's pressure and the cutter
needed something from the president. and
he said, "Okay, I'll give you a security
guarantee, albeit in the form of an
executive order, which could quickly be
repealed, but you have to perform for me
and you have to deliver Hamas."
>> I was there that day in the White House
after they had that call with the Amir.
And it was embarrassing for Netanyahu to
have to make that call, someone who was
excited that they were potentially able
to going to get this these Hamas
individuals with this strike. Trump was
successful in phase one. How do you even
bridge to phase two? Well, that's I
think the big question here. Every point
on this 20point plan beyond 0.1 with the
exchange of hostages for uh a ceasefire
is subject to long negotiations. All the
questions I just asked about the
international stabilization force.
There's lots of questions about who is a
technocratic non Hamas governing body in
the Gaza Strip. after 18 years of being
in power there, any bureaucrat has got
to be associated with Hamas. At where do
you draw the line and say, "Okay, these
are terrorists and these are people who
know how to keep the lights on." The
Israelis aren't going to want anybody
who's affiliated with Hamas. That leaves
them without really a technocratic
government.
>> If you can't get to phase two, does this
mean normalization between Israel and
some other Arab states is off the table?
I think normalization has been off the
table given the fact that the Saudis,
who are the the big fish here, have said
there needs to be a two-state solution
for there to be normalization. And I
think only 21% of the Israeli public
supports a two-state solution. Maybe the
Saudi price will go down 3, 5, 10 years.
But I think we're back to the status quo
where the Saudis and the Israelis are
doing business coordinating security
under the table rather than 3 years ago
when Saudi officials were talking about
it's not a question of if but when we'll
normalize.
>> Stephen, important perspective and
appreciate your time.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Thank you for being here. Thank you sir.
Steven Cook there of the Council on
Foreign Relations. Let's give an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Let's cross over to Yahara Anand
for more. Hey Yhara.
>> Hi John. AT&T shares are rising 2.6% in
the pre-market. The wireless provider
added more mobile phone and home
internet subscribers than expected after
a heavy promotional push. AT&T did miss
slightly on revenue, but added fullear
EPS should land in the upper range of
previous guidance. The company is the
first of the major wireless providers to
report results. Meanwhile, India's Mint
News is reporting the country is nearing
a trade deal with the US that could
lower tariffs on Indian exports to 15 to
16% from current levels which sit around
50%. The report follows comments from
President Trump who said India's
President Modi assured him the country
would pull back on purchases of Russian
oil. The two leaders are scheduled to
meet next week. And Amazon reportedly
has plans to replace more than half a
million jobs with robots in the coming
years. Documents viewed by the New York
Times show Amazon's plan to automate its
workforce, allowing executives to double
sales without hiring new US workers. The
Times also reports Amazon is so
convinced this is nearing. It has
started developing plans to mitigate the
fallout in communities that may lose
jobs. Dutch Bloomberg brief John.
>> Politicians are going to need to do the
same thing. That's for sure. Yahara,
thank you. Up next on the program,
Netflix stumbles.
>> We had a good Q3. We had revenue in line
with expectations. Our operating income
would have exceeded our forecast absent
the Brazilian tax matter.
>> We could be with the biggest players in
the world, tech and media. Uh, and as
you see, we keep growing engagement,
revenue, and profit.
>> That conversation up next with Jason Paz
of City from New York City this morning.
Good morning. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[Music]
Stories like this might not matter to
the broader equity market. It's a $6
billion company, but it certainly
matters for the broader economy. Check
out Mattel in the pre-market down by 6%,
sales declining. They misestimates and
they flag that toy stores and US
retailers are not buying product because
they don't have the certainty around the
tariff story. That's a big big issue for
the US economy.
>> Their argument is that they just pushed
some of the orders back from the third
quarter to the fourth quarter. And just
hold on a second because it's going to
be really big. In the meantime, they're
trying to wean themsel off China imports
to the United States of things like
Barbies, Hot Wheels, or Nightmade made
more in the US. One other interesting
thing they also said we're also
partnering with open AI for things like
the magic eightball. So I mean they're
trying to sort of say look we're related
to AI too.
>> Tried to get the alos to bite in after
hours trading but down by close to 6%.
This is a challenge. The retailers are
important. Of course it's often said the
American economy is the consumer. Things
are changing I know but ultimately the
holiday shopping season is massively
important and I think it puts additional
weight on these negotiations between the
US and China in the next few weeks.
>> Absolutely. And what we seen from the
president yesterday in his remarks is he
wants maximum flexibility. He's talking
about on November 1st, this new deadline
he has. It could be north of 100% tariff
on China if there's no agreement. And at
the same time, he's saying I think there
will be a good agreement. If the meeting
goes through, the meeting is not set in
stone is how the president is
approaching this. He wants maximum
flexibility before this potential sit
down.
>> People want maximum certainty and that's
not available at the moment. Equity
futures more broadly doing okay,
positive by 0.1% under surveillance this
morning. One other stock in focus,
Netflix stumbles.
>> We had a good Q3. We had revenue in line
with expectations. Our operating income
would have exceeded our forecast absent
the Brazilian tax matter. We recorded
our best ad sales quarter ever.
>> We compete with the biggest players in
the world, tech and media. Uh and as you
see, we keep growing engagement,
revenue, and profit. When it comes to
M&A opportunities, we look at all of
them and we apply the same framework and
lens that we look at when we look to
invest in a bill.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Netflix falling in the pre-market after
the streaming company reported Q3
results bruised by a tax dispute with
Brazil. Jason Basin of City keeping a
neutral rating on the stock with a price
target of 1280. Jason joins us now for
more. Jason, welcome back to the show.
Always good to catch up with you,
particularly after these numbers. Jason,
when you strip out Brazil, what's left?
What have you got?
Well, I I I would agree with the
company. I mean, ex the Brazil issue, I
would say it was a solid quarter. Um,
the area where I think the street is
going to focus is the the divergence in
the growth rates. Uh, so what we're
seeing on an FX neutral basis is the
United States and Canada is hanging in
there with good growth, but in all of
the other regions, which is about 60% of
Netflix's revenue, we're seeing revenue
growth rates decelerate. And so that's
important because um if you're not going
to get a beat and raise and you're
looking at 60% of the the world or of
Netflix's revenues deceling decelerating
revenue, you know, that doesn't augur
for multiple expansion.
>> Jason, do you see a content slate in the
pipeline that turns that story around?
Well, the content slate is sort of a
super leading indicator and then you get
the engagement uh and then after that
you get the price hike and and I would
say that um the engagement uh was
actually record levels in the quarter.
Um but I and I think they will end up
taking pricing because of that. But even
with that, you're probably still going
to see decelerating growth. And I would
say there's there's an issue that I'm
more focused on strategically for
Netflix, which is if I rolled the clock
back 5 years, Netflix had more
engagement than YouTube. If you look at
it today, YouTube has about 50% more
engagement um than Netflix does in the
United States. That is a huge sea change
uh that I think poses strategic
questions for Netflix. They push back on
this notion, but I think it's a big
issue.
>> Well, Jason, just to build on what John
is talking about, it seems like the
excuse about Brazil is part of it, but
really not the full story in terms of
the reaction in the shares. It has to do
with where the growth is going to come
from. The growth so far has come from US
and Canada which did beat as well as
Europe. But in Latin America and APAC,
it missed some of the expectations and
it just raises a question. What's their
growth strategy?
>> Well, I I think it's going to have to
come from pricing and that's going to be
easier to do in the United States than
it is going to be in the rest of the
world. They're also talking a lot about
advertising being a big issue. That's
also going to be much easier to do in
the United States than it is in the rest
of the world just given the size of the
ad market. And the third vector is
gaming. Um, the company's been working
on gaming for a number of years and they
think it's going to be one of their
major growth factors.
>> How much do they need to do M&A in order
to really uh gain in some of these
areas, whether it's gaming or just in
order to uh boost eyeballs and boost
engagement enough to raise prices
substantially.
>> You know, I don't think that they need
to do anything on the M&A front inside
the traditional video ecosystem. You
know, there's a lot of talk about Warner
Brothers potentially being for sale. I
think that's very unlikely. Um, in the
video game space, I would say it's
probably more likely. That is a very
difficult business to enter into
organically.
>> When you talk about their concern in
terms of Netflix's biggest competition,
you talk about YouTube. YouTube you can
get a free version of. How does Netflix
compete with that?
>> Well, uh, I mean, we're seeing a lot of
fast services, the free ad supported TV
other than YouTube, things like Tuby and
others. Um, you know, maybe there's a
free version of Netflix, you know, down
the pike once they get this, um, you
know, ad tech stack stood up, once they
get aggregate demand, you know, I
wouldn't rule out a free ad supported TV
from Netflix either.
>> When could we see something like that?
Are they actually in discussions about
rolling something like that out?
>> No. No, not at all. But, but in the
fullness of time, if the question is,
you know, how do they compete if this
keeps going? You know, that would be the
logical response.
>> Jason, you also cover Warner Brothers. I
believe you mentioned the name. So,
let's talk about it. The previous
strategy was pretty clear. A company
wanted to split cable, TV, and then
streaming and studios. Now they're open
to a sale based on a conversation to the
last 24 hours. Are they looking to sell
the company whole or looking to split
off individual pieces?
>> Well, I guess my narrative would be when
the original purported buyer was
Comcast, Comcast didn't want the linear
cable nets that were declining. Um,
that's why Comcast is spinning off
Versent. And so Warner Brothers was
trying to, you know, align themselves
with with Comcast narrative. I think
when Paramount showed up into the mix
and said, "Hey, we'll, you know,
potentially we'll buy the whole thing."
Um, that that's going to put pressure
under Comcast to see whether they want
to buy the whole thing or let the asset
go.
>> So, Jason, do you think the last 24
hours is the start of a period of
flirting with other players to get the
original buyer to come back to the table
with a better price?
>> Oh, uh, well, I think I think I think
Warner Brothers is just there to
maximize shareholder value. I would say
where we are in the process right now is
someone's going to probably have to buy
all of Warner Brothers and then if they
don't want the linear cable net
subsequently spin them out. But I think
that the likelihood of a of a spin of a
split of Warner Brothers into two pieces
is pretty unlikely at this point.
>> Jason, where are we in this process of
sort of the disagregation of media and
now the reagregation of media where we
can get basically the bundling that so
many people have looked for. I mean, how
far along in that process are we?
>> I think we're pretty far along. The way
I describe it is, you know, Netflix is
the undisputed champ. Um, you know,
Disney's sort of in the middle and then
you have these sort of three, you know,
tier three streaming apps, which is
Paramount, Peacock, and Max. And that's
where we really need to see the
consolidation among those three. The
interesting dynamic, and this to the
benefit of Warner Brothers, is three is
an odd number. So if we end up seeing
two of those companies merge, someone's
going to be left, you know, holding the
bag with really no cogent strategy for
the future of video delivery, which is
over the web.
>> And this raises a question also how we
can view some of their earnings reports
in terms of are these utilities, are
these discretionary spending at this
point? Can this give us a sense of how
uh able consumers are to absorb price
hikes? How much did you get the sense so
far based on what Netflix had to say
that the consumer is resilient, is
buying, and is willing to keep spending
and sort of ignore how high the bill is
getting?
>> Well, I just go back. I mean, we at one
point in this country, we had 85% of
American households were paying $100 a
month for video. We're nowhere near that
point yet. So, we're going to continue
to see these apps go up. Um, and so I'm
not nervous about the resiliency of the
consumer. Um, I think the the question
is is that we have sort of a lopsided
landscape where you need to have enough
content on your app to keep the churn
down, to keep the consumer engaged and
and as we sit here today, Netflix is the
only one with the depth and diversity of
content to do that and the others don't
have that.
>> They're just making it harder to cancel
things. I was getting excited about
canceling Apple and then what did they
do? They got the rights to Formula 1,
didn't they? Of course. So now I can't
get rid of that next year.
>> It was specifically for you. They still
trying to get you to upgrade.
>> They're out to get me. Jason, thank you,
sir. Jason Basin a city that kind of
underlines the importance of sports
content though. That's what keeps this
so sticky. These subscriptions just
state because people want to stick with
the sports they love.
>> And it's the paytoview kind of aspect of
this as well. I do wonder though what it
means for the adoption for younger
people if they have to pay a lot in
order to see the sports whether they're
going to subscribe to see every single
baseball game. I'm serious. Like I I
actually think this is actually
>> I don't think it's good for the sports.
>> I think it's actually pretty negative in
terms of gathering younger people. So
drop your prices so that people can be
avid Mets fans.
>> We got a better deal in the 90s, didn't
we?
>> We did.
>> It's got a much better deal in the 90s.
>> We still pay $100 a month for content.
What is that?
>> And more horrendous. Up next on the
program, Phil Camperelli of JP Morgan
Ass Management, the Virginia Governor,
Glenn Ynan, Jame Foley of Rabbank, and
Russ Brownback of Black Rockck from New
York City. You're watching Blimbeck TV.
[Music]
We're going to see the balance of risk
shift back a little bit towards the
inflation.
>> There's definitely inflation hazard
risk.
>> We don't really see inflation momentum
moving back down to 2%. That sets us up
for an environment where inflation
certainly won't go back to target, but
it might even accelerate.
>> You still have a very resilient and
robust economy.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now,
and your scores look like this. Security
futures on the S&P positive by a tenth
of 1% following 3 days without losses on
the S&P 500 and very close to all-time
highs. The main event of the pre-market
this name right here. Thank you Brazil
or not. Netflix down by about 6.5%. The
outlook in line though and I think
that's where the disappointment lies for
that stock this morning. This one was
better. Capital One and I think this
plays into the broader credit story at
the moment. Yes, there are flashy
headlines. Yes, we should pay attention.
But Capital One at 4% I think alleviates
some concerns about broader credit
problems
>> especially because Capital One is more
highly leveraged to some of the consumer
lending that would signify that there is
still strength in the underlying
consumer even in cohorts like the auto
lending sector in the credit card sector
they just purchased Discover. A real
question here how you can see a downturn
in the economy if you see this type of
activity right now and the Fed is
cutting rates in the near future. This,
I think, is what a lot of people are
getting their heads around, which is why
yields are lower and stocks are up.
>> We saw it with the banks last week. The
banks were just stellar. Upside,
surprise after upside, surprise, beat
after beat. And we've seen it in the
last week as well. Looking ahead to next
week, things get even more interesting.
The Fed's on deck decision. A week
today, tech earnings. The big players
kick off a week today and a week away.
We're going to have a conversation
between the US and China at the very top
level. The president of the United
States should be sitting down with the
Chinese leader. Should might change.
Exactly. Should is the operative word.
The president yesterday basically said
both things. One, they think they're
going to get a good deal. And he wants
to see a good deal with China, but China
needs to be fair. This is his words. And
at the same time, he said, well, there's
a chance the meeting won't happen.
Giving himself maximum flexibility or
maybe giving his Treasury Secretary
maximum flexibility as Scott Besset will
be going into this meeting really
deciding on what these two countries
could agree if it comes to the leader
level. I think most people are expecting
at bare minimum this is a punt down the
road you at least get an extension of
where tariff levels there are right now
maybe China loosens up some of the
restrictions on rare earths but this is
all going to bleed into 2026
>> is there a price to pay for all this
uncertainty and we're starting to see
pockets of that come to the surface
>> you're talking about Mattel in
particular the idea that they came out
how much is it an excuse though well the
reason why deliveries were a little bit
low is because China and we're not sure
what we're going to do with the holiday
shopping season. Look, there's got to be
some truth to that in the sense that how
much do you order toys that could be
more expensive when you could redirect
to domestically produced toys that
aren't going to necessarily have the
uncertainty of some sort of tariff extra
cost. At the same time, it highlights
how quickly come uh the market is to
punish any company that even raises the
spectre of tariff related disruptions.
>> That name is getting punished. Mattel is
down by more than 6% in the pre-market.
Broader equities doing okay, just about
positive on the S&P 500. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Phil
Camperelli of JP Morgan with investors
looking to extend a record-breaking
rally. Virginia Governor Glenn Yncan as
President Trump pledges to revive
American manufacturing and Jane Foley of
Rubber Bank on gold following a steep
sell-off. We begin this hour with stocks
holding near record highs driven by
strong earnings. Phil Campell of JP
Morgan writing the following. Earnings
are off to a great start. We continue to
expect heavy lifting from the Max 7
driving 42% of earnings growth. Phil
joins us now for more. Phil, good
morning.
>> Good morning. How are you? You said it a
few times through the summer. I'm good
and it's good to see you. That we're
moving from a period of uncertainty to
certainty. Has that story played out
now?
>> Yeah, I I we we truly believe that on
both sides of the 6040, John. So, as an
asset allocator, when am I ever able to
come in in late in the year in the
fourth quarter and tell you that a
globally diversified portfolio is up
about 15 and the S&P is up about 15.
Obviously much less volatility on the
asset allocation side. So, so both sides
again certainty. What are the
certainties here? The first one is my
mark tomarket is 4.1%
on the Federal Reserve on the 10-year
Treasury rate. That's where it was on
September 17th when they cut rates and
this morning it's at 395. Mark that as a
win because last year, oh my goodness,
Fed cut by 100 bips. Everybody thought
they were easing into a no recession,
you know, environment. Go long stocks.
And then in December, a bunch of coal
was dropped in everybody's stocking
because the 10-year note shot up. So the
things that I'm looking at this year,
John, particular around the certainty,
is is easing really easing financial
conditions. And the only financial
condition that matters to me is the
10-year Treasury rate because of how
much sentiment that drives around things
like mortgage bond.
>> So let's sit on that. I think it's
really important. So you compare this
story now and how it's playing out to
what happened last year.
>> Again, I would say there are
similarities. People think the Fed is
cutting into an acceleration next year.
That's what the equity market is priced
for. The only difference is yields have
dropped. They're not spiked. And I think
a conversation we've got to have is why
why are bond yields lower into
potentially a hot inflation print on
Friday and into another rate cut a week
today. Yeah. So I think growth is slower
right in general. So last year John we
were growing at about 3% in GDP. This
year about two into next year about two.
So that particular period, that
particular kind of kind of boost or just
kind of thrust in the US economy isn't
as strong as where we were last year.
And then I also think owners equivalent
rent is a big deal here within CPI. So
goods prices, sure Mattel could talk
about, you know, their their spiking
prices on goods, but that owner's
equivalent rent story that makes up
roughly 60% of CPI continues a trend
lower. And that is something that I
think, you know, goes into next year.
And it's not just inflation, you know,
it's inflation plus growth. So nominal
growth drives earnings. So we have a
double- digit earnings forecast for next
year. Pees can go sideways. You can get
the double digit earnings growth and
that could lead to double digit returns
on the S&P. So if you have about a 2%
GDP story and a 2 and a half to 3%
inflation story, that's 4 and a half to
5% nominal growth, which should be
pretty good for taking risk.
>> The only thing that you said in there
that some people might disagree with is
that this is a soft economy. How can you
say this is a soft economy with the
blockbuster earnings that we have seen
after one company after another
including in many retail sectors?
>> Yeah. So it's again I want to
characterize that as we were going to
three last year two this year. So the 2%
into next year still above trend. So I
wouldn't characterize that as soft Lisa.
I would just consider that as you could
you know characterize that as steady
resilient consumerdriven growth. And I
again I don't think that the multiple
story should expand. And I think it's
more the earning story as you said and
the earnings look really good. I I love
the financial sector. People love to
talk about tech. We and you mentioned in
with Capital One the financial story you
know hearing CEOs like Goldman CEO
talking about okay we we now know what
this environment is deal making we think
can continue. You realize that deal
making coming into this year. So M&A as
a percent of GDP was the lowest since
the.com era coming into this year. So
now I think you have, you know, kind of
an administration that's going to say
yes, but also going back to the story
around rates, I think you have certainty
on the rate story. If if the older and
wiser sage of the VIX, which is the move
index, is saying that this is the lowest
rate volatility since 2021, I think CEOs
realize that and can move forward to
capital market activity.
>> Not to be overly cynical, but let's just
say somebody wanted to buy banks at a
better valuation and they say, "Oo,
credit worries." And all of a sudden
those stocks tank.
>> Are you on the other side of that just
buying them up as quickly as you
possibly can?
>> Yeah. So apparently there were
cockroaches crawling around.
>> Who said that?
>> We have a big beautiful building and
there are no cockroaches. Trust me. Um
and you're buying the cockroach.
>> Exactly. So So I we saw those headlines
last week. Um and I think when you have
things like high yield spreads, Lisa,
trading inside of 300, that's a lot of
good news priced in, right? So, if you
have this event, I call it event risk,
not fundamental risk. So, if you have
this event or headline risk hitting,
yeah, I mean, you're going to you're
going to you're going to release some of
that pressure and high yields because
they're trading so tight, but we would
be buyers, right, on that back up
because it's not fundamental risk. Think
about Silicon Valley. Silicon Valley in
March of 2023, most people were saying
we're in a recession already, right? And
then you go to even August of last year,
the Japanese yen carry trade early
August some rule triggered Federal
Reserve wants to cut rates fundamental
or recession risk was elevated. That is
very different than this time. I don't
think that we have only a 20%
probability of recession over the next
12 months. Nobody's really talking about
recession. We have a a fiscal policy
hitting in in January. So at least you
add all that up, we would be buyers on
backups of of financials uh with because
we consider this more headline risk than
fundamental risk.
>> But are you on high alert? That's how
Capital One put it.
High alert is not how we would we would
put it. No, I I think a trademark of
this cycle, Emory, has been the
corporate balance sheet health and
consumer balance sheet health. And you
know, those are slowmoving signals. I
mean, the consumer is paying 4.1% on
their mortgage right now. The the kind
of wall of worry or the wall of maturity
on on on credit really hits in a couple
of years, not not this year or next. So,
we are not on high alert when it comes
to when it comes to uh credit spread.
You say uncertainty is moving to
certainty.
>> Yeah.
>> How exactly? The two biggest economies
might sit down. The president go waivers
almost back and forth every single day.
We're in the middle of a government
shutdown.
>> What is so certain right now?
>> Yeah. So what matters to us was the fear
of tariffs from earlier in the year that
would raise probability of recession and
or prevent the Federal Reserve from
cutting rates. So now we have the
certainty of we only have a 20%
probability of recession. Federal
Reserve is engaged in in an easing
policy. Amry, I I don't know what's
going to happen in 2026.
>> 155% tariff on China. Does that not lead
to a recession?
>> That could change the calculus, Amry,
for sure. So, but with the information
that we know now, we are not we are not
penciling that in. Um, and also emerging
markets are not pricing that in. So,
emerging markets the number one
performing asset class right now uh year
to date.
>> Phil, I appreciate it. Thank you. Always
constructive and optimistic. We
appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Phil
Camper there of JP Morgan. Equity
futures slightly negative, just rolling
over just a touch. were down by almost a
tenth of 1% with an update on stories
worldwide. With your Bloomberg brief,
here's Yahihara. Hi, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump says
the upcoming meeting with Chinese
President Xi would yield a good deal on
trade. Still, Trump said the possibility
remains that the meeting could fail to
materialize. Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant is expected to meet with his
Chinese counterparts to discuss the
deescalation of trade tensions later
this week ahead of the Trump talks.
Meanwhile, President Trump is demanding
the Justice Department pay him about
$230 million in compensation for the
federal investigations into him. The
Times reported earlier that Trump
alleged these were a violation of his
rights. Any settlement might ultimately
be be approved by senior Justice
Department officials who were once
defense lawyers for the president. And
AI firm Anthropic is in talks with
Google for a massive cloud computing
deal potentially valued in the high tens
of billions of dollars. The deal would
provide Anthropic access to Google's
powerful tensor processing units to
accelerate its machine learning
development. Both companies have
declined com to comment with talks still
in the early stages. That's your blue
rig brief John. Hey yara, thank you.
Appreciate it. More from Yahara in about
30 minutes time. Up next on the program,
make America manufacture again.
We have record business. We're going to
be I think by the time I had my uh I hit
month number 12, I think we're going to
have 20 trillion dollars of investment.
>> Up next on the program, the Virginia
Governor Glenn Ynan joins us from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
The buildup into next week continues a
week today. A Federal Reserve decision
in the afternoon and after the close,
we'll get numbers from the likes of
Microsoft, Meta, Alphabet, the big big
players that make up a big chunk of this
equity market. Equity futures just about
unchanged this morning on the S&P 500.
Very, very close to all-time highs on
the S&P. On the NASDAQ, down by around
about 210 of 1% midocctober, a lot still
to play for into month end. Yeah, and
this is the reason why people maybe are
taking some chips off the table or
trying to figure out exactly how to
derisk, but every earnings report has
just reconfirmed this idea. Nothing's
going that wrong. So, if you want to
find pockets of stress, you're not
really finding it from the AI space.
You're not really finding it from the
consumer space. What are you going to
worry about now?
>> That's the only so far you can worry
about. China, I guess, the US and China
sitting down the president of the United
States alongside the leader of the
Chinese economy. And Amarie, the
negotiating doesn't start next week.
It's already started. You see it play
out in public. Every time the president
speaks, he's negotiating.
>> And every time you get some sort of
statement from the Chinese Commerce
Ministry, most recently in the past 2
weeks, regarding rare earths and the
fact that they are making it harder to
have rare earths being exported out of
China and that's really what started the
hot rhetoric between these two
economies. Also, the fact that China's
not buying any soybeans. Now, that is a
huge issue for the president
domestically when he go sits down with
Xiinping. We think he sits down with
Xiinping. You think I think a lot of
people hope. Let's talk about trade and
domestic manufacturing under
surveillance this morning. Make America
manufacture again.
>> We have record business. We're going to
be I think by the time I had my uh I hit
month number 12, I think we're going to
have $20 trillion of investment. A lot
of it's because of tariffs because
they're coming in because they don't
want to pay tariffs. In other words, uh
they make their product in a certain
country and they used to just send it in
here and there was no charge.
Absolutely. But now if they have to pay
a tariff, they say, "Well, it's better
if I build my plant in the United
States."
>> So here's the latest this morning.
President Trump reiterating his pledge
to revive American manufacturing. The
Commonwealth of Virginia securing $13
billion in new domestic investments
between July and October of this year
alone. I'm very pleased to say that
joining the program now is the
Republican Governor Glenn Yncan of
Virginia. He joins us now for more.
Governor, welcome to the program, sir.
Always good to catch up with you.
Yeah, good morning Jonathan and it has
been a very very busy few months for us
as we have welcomed a lot of
manufacturing into Virginia particularly
from the pharmaceutical sector and I
think it demonstrates that we're leading
not just in Virginia but in America and
reshoring this critical supply chain.
>> So governor there's certainly a
consensus we need to do more of that
produce more manufacture more
domestically here in the United States.
Can you share with us what you've done
in Virginia to attract more of that
investment from overseas and bring it
back home and perhaps use Merc as a good
example of that?
>> Yeah, we identified uh 3 years ago that
pharmaceutical manufacturing had to come
back to the United States. It's a
national security imperative where all
of the active pharmaceutical ingredients
were being manufactured overseas and a
lot of them in China and we needed to
bring it back. But on top of that, we
saw big investments coming from the
pharmaceutical manufacturers. And so we
prepared a great workforce development
program. We we lessened all of our
regulations. We've cut almost 30% of our
regulations in Virginia. And then
finally, we made sure that we had sites
ready for them. We're a businessfriendly
state ready to go. And then we went and
recruited them. And you and you combine
that with President Trump's strong push
against the pharmaceutical industry to
bring manufacturing to America and we've
just seen a a huge drive of reshoring
and investment. And yes, it's been $13
billion. Merc was our latest big
announcement this week with a $3 billion
facility to set up their active
pharmaceutical and small molecule
manufacturing center of excellence here
in Virginia. Uh it's they're going to
they're going to hire 500 people direct
and there's going to be thousands of of
indirect jobs plus construction jobs and
it's just another big step of bringing
manufacturing home. I like to say made
in America means made in Virginia.
>> Governor, we've also seen a lot of tech
companies invest in Virginia. There's a
lot of data centers in Northern
Virginia. We've also seen though the
cost of electricity prices go up. How
are you balancing the two?
Well, we first start with an imperative
to have an all of the above,
all-American
uh energy plan. And that means that
yeah, we have to embrace natural gas and
nuclear and yes, of course, uh the
renewables that we already have, but
we've got to build a lot more power on
top of that because Virginia is the data
center capital of the world and we're
seeing investment all over the state.
Now we also are driving uh bring your
own power initiatives and so power goes
behind the meter uh that actually keeps
uh rate payers whole so they don't get
charged with a disproportionate amount
of the cost of the infrastructure build
necessary to support the data center
industry. And again this is a national
security imperative that we're so
pleased is happening in Virginia. You
know, since I became governor, we've had
$140 billion dollar of commitments from
businesses to expand uh here or come
here, and that's manufacturing and
distribution and research and
development. And I think it just goes to
show that when you create a
businessfriendly environment, we're a
right to work state. Uh we have
deregulated, we have made sure we have
the best workforce in the country.
businesses will come and invest and that
creates opportunity for not just
Virginiaians but I think to supply in
all of these critical critical needs
that once were once were manufactured
overseas and they're all coming home.
>> You talk about an all of energy
approach. The Trump administration has
canled federal funding for things like
offshore wind and some renewable
projects. Has that become a problem for
you as you are dealing with higher
electricity prices?
>> Well, it it hasn't. it hasn't for us in
Virginia. Um we of course uh have been
uh really pushing to build new natural
gas plants and we hope to lead the
nation in the development of small
modular reactors and we do have uh wind
and solar projects underway. The reality
is the previous Democrat administration
in Virginia so underestimated the growth
prospects of Virginia that we're behind
and that's why we're massively building
in order to catch back up. On top of
that, I do believe it's one of the great
challenges for our nation. And that's
why President Trump's initiative for
energy dominance uh has to be a a top
imperative because we're finding that
yes, when we're building data centers
and advanced manufacturing and of course
electrifying just about everything,
power demand goes up substantially.
We've seen China developing gas plants,
nuclear plants like crazy and we're
behind. And so we have to build in
America and we need to do that fast so
that we can not just catch up but we can
supply all of the reshoring of American
manufacturing that is going to secure
our future.
>> Governor, you really are at the vanguard
in Virginia of a lot of trends around
the nation particularly when it comes to
the labor market. You are bringing jobs
back. You also have a heavy investment
from the likes of Amazon which just uh
is supposedly on the way to replacing a
lot of roles with robots. And I'm just
wondering what role you see in terms of
job training to try to adapt to a
rapidly shifting uh backdrop in terms of
technology.
Yeah, we have been out in front here
because of course artificial
intelligence particularly is now part of
every aspect of the business supply
chain. Of course from design and
engineering all the way through to
manufacturing, marketing, everything is
being fundamentally changed. And so we
initiated in partnership with Google
10,000 AI uh credentials that allow
folks free to come in and build their
capabilities. And I think mean as we see
technology rapidly transforming the way
we do business, we have to rapidly
transform the way we prepare our
workforce to thrive in that environment.
Listen, we got a lot of jobs in
Virginia. We have 277,000 more people
working today than when we started.
220,000 open and available jobs. And the
140 billion of capital investment
underpins another 85,000 jobs and nearly
40,000 construction jobs. So, we've got
a lot of work to do here to prepare a
workforce to take advantage of that
opportunity. And I think making sure
that workforce is AI ready is really
important and that's why we've been way
out in front to make sure that that
workforce is prepared for it.
>> Governor, I remember talking to you when
you used to be at Carlile and you've had
this incredible dual hat where you've
been investing on one side in
infrastructure and then you are
responsible for helping to plan uh and
bring jobs in. I'm just wondering, does
it concern you some of the private
investments uh that we've seen in some
of the infrastructure spending and some
of the speculation that maybe things
could be getting a little bit frothy in
that space?
Listen, the big difference that we're
seeing now is the capital investments uh
particularly around data centers and AI
and machine learning are tied to
business commitments in order to drive
forward this transformation and
therefore it needs to it needs to get uh
invested behind. We need to see the
power investment and we're competing
against China day in and day out. Listen
there this is a race. We need to make
sure that we have uh the the the
appropriate stop gaps and just in case
that uh the application of AI begins to
overwhelm the the interface between
humans and uh decisions and my art my
artificial intelligence executive order
that I wrote last year said that we are
going to incorporate artificial
intelligence and what we're doing in
government, but we're also going to make
sure that we have people between advice
and decisions. And I think that's one of
our big steps. But with regards to the
investment that we are seeing, I firmly
believe that this investment uh will
grow great capabilities and those
capabilities will be put to work. And
that's why it's so important that we win
the artificial intelligence race and not
allow China to win it.
>> Governor Yncan, just quickly, have you
spoken to the Trump administration,
Speaker Johnson, Leader Thun about
reopening the government because your
constituents, hundreds of thousands of
them are not getting paid right now?
Yeah, this is the Schumer shutdown is is
such a tragedy because they're holding
America and Virginia hostage at a time
when in and they need to be doing their
jobs, which is of course funding
government. Uh the the Schumer Democrats
voted in support of a clean CR 13 times
during the Biden administration. There's
a clean CR sitting on their desks and
they just need to vote and open up the
government. I I will tell you, we're
starting to see some real pressures. I
applaud the Trump administration for
making sure that the military and law
enforcement are getting paid. I know
they're working hard to try to lessen
the pain on the American people, but at
the end of the day, uh we're starting to
worry about SNAP benefits next month.
And and to say that the the Schumer
shutdown is going to hold hostage
Americans who need support for food
insecurity is absolutely crazy. And so
we need to tell all the Senate Democrats
just go in, open up the government, and
let's get going.
>> The opening bow 2 hours away. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 just a little bit
softer. We're down on the NASDAQ 100 by
0.2%. The small caps negative by 0.4.
The Russell just a little bit lighter so
far this morning. As we k you down to
the opening bow, let's get you some
morning movers and cross over to Danny
Burgerer for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Here perhaps is the reason for
NASDAQ underperformance. It is Netflix
down sharply in the pre-market. They
reported earnings after the bell
yesterday. For one, they had a tax
charge related to Brazil that was over
$600 million. So that was a black mark
on their earnings. They did beat
expectations in some areas, but maybe
the expectation was even higher. The
whisper number was maybe even higher
considering they had hit like K-pop
Demon Hunter. They had a live boxing
match that was really popular. So shares
off 7% this morning. Of course, their
name continues to swirl around a Warner
Brothers Discovery potential deal. We
also had some earnings this morning to
work through in the past hour. We heard
from AT&T, those shares up 1 and a3%
beating on th their subscribers. To be
fair, they've had a lot of offers and
deals to try to attract those
subscribers and beat out their big
rivals in Verizon and T-Mobile.
Nonetheless, they've also been investing
in their systems, in their coverage as a
whole. So, that seems to be working out
for AT&T. Uh, we also heard from Hilton
this morning, too. They did boost some
of their financial metrics for the full
year, hence the rally of 3%, but they
did flag a lower occupancy rate than
they had expected. But in the look
forward, the company saying things are
getting more certain for us. We hope tax
policy, regulatory policy, general
government policy will be more certain.
That should boost growth. Not to mention
there is more demand for hotels than
there is supply right now. So that's
helping them out. John.
>> Hey Danny, thank you. The stock is high
by a little more than 3%. More from
Danny in the next hour. On a radar this
morning, President Donald Trump
threatening 155% tariffs on Chinese
goods if there's no trade deal by
November. The president planning to meet
with the Chinese leader later on this
month, but warning the meeting might not
even happen. Elsewhere, the second half
of Treasury Secretary Scott Besson's $40
billion rescue package for Argentina
could be in jeopardy. Banks involved in
the $20 billion financing deal are still
working on the term structure and
collateral with just days before Javier
Miller's midterm election. And finally,
Amazon planning to automate 75% of its
operations and replace more than half a
million jobs with robots. The New York
Times reporting the company hopes to
avoid adding to its US workforce in the
coming years while doubling sales by
2033. And this to me is one of the key
uh templates to see how much jobs can be
replaced by AI. This was a company that
tripled its workforce since 2018. It's
one of the biggest employers out there.
Whether these jobs are the ones that
people want to be adding to the United
States is a real question. Whether we
need it to be given the fact that the
population, the demographic demographics
are shifting, another question. But to
me, this is the epicenter of the concern
about AI and what it means for the job
market. given the fact that they're
already talking about mitigation uh in c
certain communities that could be
affected by this.
>> Look, this is a political problem. It's
an economic issue as well. The
additional growth we're going to see is
going to be very energy intensive. It's
not going to be as labor intensive. And
that is a problem for anyone sitting in
a political sea anywhere across this
country.
>> Can you imagine losing your job and then
coming home and seeing your electricity
bill up 15 20% higher and you've just
lost your job? All of it comes down to
artificial intelligence. This is
potentially going to be the fallout of
this new technology. And to Lisa's
point, what you're talking about the New
York Times, they're looking at
potentially the fallout in some of these
community communities that they are
consider building a good corporate
citizen role, toys for tots, parades.
Well, I'll tell you what, people don't
want that. They don't want handouts.
They want to keep their job.
>> Without a doubt, Amazon in the
pre-market just a little bit lighter
this morning. We're down by around about
1%. We'll get earnings from them in
about a week from now. Let's turn back
to markets. What a move in gold,
extending losses after its steepest
sell-off in over a decade. The precious
metals record run before yesterday
sparking concern at a US debasement
trade. Jame Foley of Rabber Bank
debunking that theory, writing
debasement would imply a move away from
the dollar and US treasuries into assets
such as gold. And there is very little
evidence to back up these flows. Jane
joins us now for more. Jane, welcome to
the program. It's been a really curious
year because the narrative around
foreign exchange was born in one quarter
and it was the first quarter of 2025 and
I find it difficult to find evidence
that the rest of the year really jives
with that narrative at all. We had a big
blast of dollar weakness. Jane, what's
followed?
>> Well, you're quite right. I mean, most
of that dollar weakness has really ded
in the first five months of the year.
And ever since, well, actually over the
last month or two, I I keep on finding
myself saying, "Well, no, actually the
dollar isn't weak. It's been one of the
better performers." In fact, I think
it's a better performer right now in in
the month to date and perhaps over the
one month view too. So actually
essentially if we look at the dollar
index for instance that's sort of gone
nowhere since the at the beginning of
July and and what we what are we looking
at in euro dollar you know a currency at
the dollar that is certainly well off
its lows versus the euro. So um we we
aren't looking at a weak dollar as as we
as we stand but yes the theme really was
set at the start of the year by that
huge bout of dollar weakness. So Jane,
let's talk about reality and the last
few weeks and then we can get to the
peculiar move yesterday, the wild swing
we saw in gold. More recently, we have
seen gold rip higher, started to go
vertical the middle of August and never
looked back. And alongside that, we did
have dollar strength participate as
well. So Jame, what explains those
moves? What's the relationship if there
is one between the two?
>> You know what I mean? Normally, of
course, when you get a stronger dollar,
then a profit taking sets in. And I
think with respect to gold, yeah, there
are good reasons, I think, for many
portfolios to think about
diversification uh this year and and and
I think that's still a valid theme. And
I think gold, you know, can be held
along those lines. But, you know, I do
think there was lots of FOMO, you know,
a phrase I've heard um you know, in in
your channel quite a lot over the last
few weeks. And certainly, you know, at
the start of this week, the Australian
press were showing pictures of retail
investors queuing round the block to get
their hands on some gold. And I think
for many institutional investors, you
know, that was perhaps the last straw.
So profit taking pushed in as well with
it the stronger dollar. I think as we go
into to to next year, there's probably
still a theme, a reason to diversify
portfolios and maybe gold again is part
of that. But um I think it is going to
struggle quite clearly uh to to to match
those very recent highs in the very near
future.
>> Jane, is the concept of debasement just
overly binary? And there's something
else a foot that is maybe along the same
kind of theme but isn't quite as strong
which is more people are considering
that the dollar isn't the only thing in
town. There was a discussion yesterday
about how Ethiopia is trying to transfer
loans that have been dollar denominated
into UN. I mean honestly this is not
necessarily something that's going to
cause alarm bells everywhere but there
is this sense that people are looking
for alternatives. At what point is that
a realistic narrative to really play
into your calculations?
you know, I think we probably could be
having the same sort of conversation in
in 20 or 30 years time that there is a
theme um of, you know, reduced dollars
for instance in in global reserves and,
you know, we can trace that theme back,
you know, to the start of this century
if we like. There is a theme also, you
know, in in China, they want to
internationalize their currency a lot
more. the euro. We keep we've heard
several times from Christine Lagard and
the ECB since the spring this year that
she wants to have a bigger role for the
euro on an international basis. So we
can assume maybe the euro will make some
progress and remi will continue to make
that the progress that it's been making.
But the dollar has a massive advantage.
It's already a huge transactional
currency around the globe across Africa,
across Latin America, across Asia. uh
and the US Treasury will be making
attempts you know to protect that uh uh
not the least with you know with stable
coins. So uh it is going to be something
that the US Treasury will fight back on
but yeah there might still be
incremental uh benefits perhaps in
internationalization
for rem
that that that that those gains are
going to be really quite modest.
>> Jane, how many questions do you still
get about Bitcoin?
>> Uh not that many. More about stable
coin. I I I think this year less about
Bitcoin. I mean, Bitcoin, you know,
certainly very much in the in in the
news, but I think most people have come
to terms with this. You know, this is
something like, you know, it's an asset.
Perhaps it's part of that
diversification story again, but it used
to be perhaps a different type of
comprehension about where Bitcoin was
and and and perhaps a misunderstanding
that it was a currency in in the way,
you know, that that the yen or the euro
that that the dollar was. And and I
think that misunderstanding really now
has more or less ebed away. Jane, when
it comes to gold, if there's too much
momentum and that's starting to Wayne,
what do you make of everyone talking
about $5,000 an ounce next year?
>> You know, I think if we were to to look
at, you know, really big movements, we'd
have to be looking at uh you know,
significant movements in in the backdrop
for the world economy. So maybe, you
know, we would have to be expecting or
or seeing a shock rise in inflation
perhaps or, you know, maybe more
geopolitical tension perhaps. And I
think if we were looking down those
lines and and seeing that type of
stress, uh, then I think that there is
perhaps the the reason to carry on
moving to into gold and it, you know,
because of its intrinsic value, etc.
But, you know, we're not looking at huge
amounts of inflation anymore. I mean, if
we if we go back, you know, to the start
of the year, people were panicking about
the degree of inflation that we could
see in the US, um, we're not panicking
anymore. You know, we're seeing far more
moderate types of inflation. Yes, we're
still focused on, you know, the
potential for worsening in in the in the
trade front, which could create
inflation, but there isn't that panic
anymore. And assuming that we don't get
panic either on inflation or the
geopolitics, then then I I think these
sorts of gains are really going to calm
down for all.
>> Jame wanted to finish on the move of the
day in foreign exchange. Sterling
inflation came in a little bit lighter
than expected. Yields are down across
the curve, particularly at the front
end. We're now down by about 11 basis
points on a 2-year guilt this morning.
Sterling's a whole lot weaker for a
fourth session. 13317 out the corner of
my eye. Jane, what's behind the latest
move? And do you think the Bank of
England will embrace this move lower in
inflation and ultimately deliver more
rate cuts?
You know, I think there's still a wild
card here because yes, the inflation
data was better than expected, lower
than expected, but yes, it's still well
above where the Bank of England wants it
to be, but between now and the December
um Bank of England meeting, which is the
one the market is now focusing on for a
possible cut, we do have that uh
November 26 budget in the UK. And there
is speculation that ruies may cut VAT on
energy bills in order to bring inflation
down further. And that maybe could give
the Bank of England the sort of
confidence that they need to cut
interest rates again soon.
>> I don't think anyone's looking forward
to that budget. Jane, thank you. Jane
Foley of Rubber Bank. Jane, thank you.
13318 on cable this morning. Let's get
you an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara
Arnard. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Open AI taking on Google with
its first artificial intelligence
powered web browser called Chat GBT
atlas. The browser features an Ask
ChatgBT sidebar that lets users engage
with website content and tasks like
booking flights and editing documents.
At Atlas will be available globally on
Apple's Mac OS to start with plans to
expand to Windows, the iPhone, and
Android soon. Meanwhile, Walmart has
paused offers to candidates who need
H-1B visas. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the current guidelines
primarily impact the retailer's
corporate employees. The move follows
the Trump administration's decision to
raise the visa fees to $100,000.
Walmart's is the largest user of H-1B
visas among major retail chains. And
shares of Six Flags are slightly lower
now, but they were up 18% yesterday as
activist investor Jana Partners and
co-investors, including Chief's tight
end Travis Kelce, pushed for major
changes. The group, which has built a
stake of about 9% in Six Flags, is
suggesting it refresh its marketing
strategy and consider a range of
strategic options, including a sale of
underperforming parks or the entire
company. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, the Federal Reserve's
crystal ball.
>> If you want to have a Fed view, talk to
the 2-year. The two-year yield is the
best crystal ball on Fed policy. And it
just told you that the Fed's going to
have to act more aggressively on cutting
than it did before this week. That
conversation up next with Russ Brownback
of Black Rockck from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
A week today, the Federal Reserve
decision just around the corner. Most
people anticipating the Federal Reserve
will reduce interest rates all over
again, another 25 basis points. And most
people also think the Friday's CPI
report is totally irrelevant to the
story of whether they decide to go or
not. They will go based on all the
research I've read on the Southside
going into this decision a week away
today. Equity futures on the S&P 500
down this morning by a tenth of 1%. Some
underperformance on the NASDAQ 100 down
by 0.3. Netflix stumbling not helping
that index this morning. This morning at
least. There is a conflicting story in
the financials though. credit and all
the concerns and the flashy headlines
really competing with solid earnings
across the board from the big players
and the regionals too. Saw it from Zions
early this week. Saw it from Western
Alliance overnight as well. Equity
futures down just about across the board
in the bond market. Twos 10, 30s shaping
up as follows. Two-year bond yield to
look like this. 344 on twos. We're down
a single basis point. 10ens down two to
39378 and 30s around 450. All the fear
about bond yields parked. Yields have
rallied. They've dropped big time. We do
get some auctions, Lisa, a little bit
later. 20-year bonds coming to market.
>> Yeah.$ 13 billion dollars, which could
test some of that appetite. Although,
right now, it doesn't seem like that's
really much of a test. I keep going back
to what Earl Davis of Bibo said
yesterday, which is that investors can
only think about one thing at a time.
And right now, they're thinking about
the Fed cutting rates. They're not
thinking about inflation. And that is
something that everyone's going to look
through. So, bond deals are going to
keep going down as the Fed cuts. Go
reconcile that with last year. I know,
but that's sort of where we are right
now. As I'm speaking, a chat box pops up
on a Bloomberg terminal. Guess who? It's
Neil. Neil Data writes in, "Of course
they will go. They're not stupid." Thank
you, Neil. And good morning. And let's
advantage this morning. The Federal
Reserve's crystal ball. If you want to
have a Fed view, talk to the 2-year. The
2-year yield is the best crystal ball on
Fed policy. And it just told you that
the Fed's going to have to act more
aggressively on cutting than it did
before this week. We haven't even gotten
to a recession yet or any real liquidity
event. When we get there, I think the
Fed's going to have to cut more than the
markets think.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
latest interest rate decision from the
Federal Reserve just one week away.
Trend is now betting on more aggressive
policy easing into year end. Russell
Brown, back of Black Rockck, writing,
"The committee is expected to reinforce
its doubbish pivot. Forward rate
expectations imply continued easing
through 26, 100 basis points or more is
possible." Russ joins us now for more.
Russ, good morning.
>> Hey, good morning.
>> Let's run with that. 100 basis points or
more is possible. What does the data
look like in a world where they're
reducing interest rates that much?
>> So, you know, it's a continuation of the
trend you've seen over the last 2 and
1/2 years, which is a decided uh
disinflation. If you look at core PC on
a trailing 6 or 12 month basis, it's
really pretty much a straight line down
save for a sort of stalling of that
evolution because of tariffs. We've
talked before about I don't think
tariffs are inflation. It's a one-time
price level increase. And if you strip
the tariff impact out of uh trailing
12-month core PCE, it's down around
2.5%. Um we think on its way back, you
know, eventually toward the low twos,
which is where it's priced in uh the
break even market today. So with a
policy rate in the fours today, we think
it's very pragmatic for the Fed to be
delivering what's priced into markets
>> and it looks like they will go again
next week. You talked about the
disinflation. What's the source of that
disinflation? What makes that durable
and sustainable in your mind? So, you
know, to start with, it's a secular
disinflationary environment. You think
about billions of consumers connected in
real time, you know, with smart devices
and the like perfect information about
the economic value of everything. Um,
it's really hard to have pricing power
in that environment. You think about the
the the just the the uh culture of
corporate America today. You've got
igopies in most major industries today.
But instead of sort of being rent
seeking, you've got companies trying to
take still more share um because they're
getting rewarded uh in markets through
valuations by be being bigger and having
more share rather than uh by by raising
prices. And consumers are smart today.
So consumers will substitute if
something in the basket goes up too much
and they'll buy something different. So
that is the secular environment we live
in today. The biggest single piece of
core inflation is shelter. It's always a
lagging indicator. Every single piece of
our proprietary data or publicly
available data, whether it's multif
family, whether it's single family,
suggests that there's a lot more
progress coming on that front. So, you
know, we think a year from now, uh,
inflation will be convincingly down into
the mid to low twos.
>> As you were talking about the
efficiencies, I'm thinking, why are my
Blackberries still $8? I mean, there
still are sectors where people are very
much feeling cost of living increases
that have been pretty intolerable for
huge sectors of the economy. I mean,
that was a reason why a lot of people
say that Joe Biden became so unpopular
later in his uh in his presidency. I
just wonder how much we're creating a
narrative around oil prices that have
come down so much around the costs that
we have not yet seen from the
transformation to a digital society that
is much more reliant on the physical
world that we haven't built out.
>> Yeah. No, no doubt. And I think what
you're describing with your blueberries
or anytime you walk into a restaurant
and you see a very expensive steak, you
have sticker shock. But I think that uh
angst is over high prices. It's not over
in ongoing increases in prices. The
Fed's mandate is price stability. If you
look at the volatility of inflation
today, it's all the way back down to
preandemic levels. So the the war on
price stability has been won. Now the
thing to focus on are the broad swaths
of the economy that are being hurt by
real policy rates that are as high as
they are. So why have people gotten
conviction that any Fed cuts now won't
necessarily cause a reaceleration in
some of this inflation? I'm thinking
about the housing sector in particular.
Low rates, suddenly people can take out
bigger mortgages, pay more for those
homes, and suddenly that progress goes
the other way.
>> So again, I would point to the secular
environment that is disinflationary to
begin with. Um, and in the housing
market, you've got an affordability
crisis that's incredibly acute. You've
got turnover for existing homes, which
are nine out of nine 90% of all homes
that turn over are existing homes down
to kind of GFC postGFC kinds of levels
today. So to bring the rate down, you've
got trillions of dollars of pentup home
equity that can be tapped into. If you
look at the refinancing index for the
US, uh it's po it's doubled since June
with this rate rally we've had today. So
there is relief coming for the housing
market. Um that's welcome relief. You
know, you've got millions and millions
of households suffering from this policy
stance today.
>> When it comes to the housing market
though, last year mortgage rates went up
even as the Fed was cutting. Will that
happen again?
>> So, you know, I think this I I love this
narrative that gosh, the markets
protested the Fed cutting last year. You
had a deeply inverted yield curve coming
into September last year. The markets
were pricing in a hard landing. When the
Fed cut 50 and then signaled that they'd
be delivering more cuts as as the year
went on, the markets started to price in
a soft landing and it the curve
steepened as a result. Then you got the
election. Uh markets guessed that was a
growth friendly, you know, cocktail
policy mix and curves steepened further
and then globally fiscal policy sort of
spiggots opened up. Curves steepened
globally in deference to the higher
likelihood of a soft landing, not in
protestation to cuts. Are you loading up
on bonds then Russ? So no actually you
know I think the market
>> come on Russ what's happening here this
is the big framework it sounded so
bullish what's happen
>> okay so you know what we're bullish on
are yields and income so the yield curve
today the front end's priced to that
sort of Fed target that we talked about
the back end will always gravitate
around nominal GDP growth outcomes so
there's not a huge directional trade
today but because the Fed's delivering
because fiscal policies uh supportive
because the structural underpinnings to
the economy are good it's a great
environment to to own credit securitized
assets on top of the risk-free curve and
harvest income. The aggregate index
right now is annualizing to almost a 9
and a half% return. This is a great
environment for clipping coupon.
>> Can you say this rest say the same about
the rest of the world? That's the United
States. What about everybody else?
>> So, you know, we actually think a
diversified exposure. We're taking our
multis sector portfolios globally. when
you when you look at swapping uh
European credit high yield investment
grade even some of the peripheral
sovereigns back to dollars when you look
at um Asian sort of credit assets
swapped back to dollars today you can
get very very attractive yields and of
course diversification
uh in a very bifurcated economy is the
way you sort of uh risk mitigate when
you're seeking yield
>> you're going to take a long breakfast
Friday morning and just ignore CPI feels
like most people are
>> well I think it'll be very interesting
to look at the component parts We're
particularly focused on the shelter
piece as we talked about at the onset of
this discussion. You know, we expect
there will be a resumption of a
deceleration of shelter. That's the
thing that we want to look at uh in the
inflation indicators going forward.
>> Russ, thank you, sir. Always the clinic.
My pleasure.
>> Good to see you. Thank you, Russ
Brownback there of Black Rockck,
breaking down the fixed income market,
looking ahead to Friday's CPI report.
The amount of notes we've all read that
have basically just said, "This Fed's
going to go, this Fed's going to go. It
doesn't matter what that inflation
number looks like on Friday."
>> People are going to say it's noisy.
People are going to say that going
forward they're going to look past this
because of the one-time price shocks and
they're going to talk about shelter.
They're going to talk about oil. They're
going to talk about some of these other
inputs that are going to be mitigating
factors to, you know, your Hot Wheels
that you might be getting from for the
Christmas.
>> Maybe maybe if the retailers buy them,
you know, cuz right now they're not
stocking up.
>> That's true. I mean, that's the
creativity and the reason why maybe we
haven't seen the prices go up.
>> But remember the president of the United
States who said a few months ago, if
you're a 9 10year-old girl, you don't
need $37.
>> Need one.
>> You need one.
>> Yes. I don't think that's going to work
on Santa Claus Christmas morning.
>> No, I don't think that works on December
25th either. If you're looking at the
bond market this morning, we're down by
a basis point 344. On 10's, we're at
394. So, the front end of the curve
coming down the long end of SWAT, we're
down by a few basis points across the
curve. Equity futures doing okay in the
S&P 500, just a little bit softer
through most of this morning. Coming up
in the next hour, we'll catch up with
Daryl Kron of Wells Fargo, George
Daneras of Canacort, Yolennena Chila of
the Conference Board, and Christian
Mlyman of Gman Sachs. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance is up next.
[Music]
I think this kind of AI capback cycle
still has room here.
>> Right now, you got to be bullish.
>> How many articles are you going to read
about a bubble in AI and not start to be
a little bit worried? A lot of the
speculative fervor has been outside the
mega cap tech areas within the market.
>> I do think we're overlooking some of the
flags that have been waving.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance and your third
hour starts right now. Now the scores
look like there equity futures on the
S&P 500 just a little bit lighter
following three days without losses on
the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ were down by
about 0.3%.
Some losses for Netflix overnight
continue throughout this morning. The
attention will shift very quickly to
earnings later and the main event is
very much about Elon Musk and Tesla.
Huge pull forward expected for this
quarter of demand. We've seen that in
delivery numbers. What's the rest of the
year going to look like and beyond in
26? And what's the hit from some of the
tax incentives that will be rolling off?
Does he speak about demand in China and
the competition there? And how much does
Elon Musk try to pivot to the idea of
self-driving vehicles as the hopes and
dreams that he can keep using to fuel
some of the valuations that we have
seen? It's going to be a real question
around the epicenter of a whole host of
different uh different themes from autos
to trade to also what the future of
technology is going to be.
>> The southwestern focus as well with
Cinnipic Airlines fantastic numbers.
Delta Airlines. Brilliant. You'll catch
up with American Airlines tomorrow
morning. Southwest could be a very
different story. That's a different
segment of this economy.
>> We've heard incredible earnings from
United and from Delta. The expectation
is that American will have a similar
story. Is it in aggregate all of travel
or is it specifically tied up in the big
three to the detriment of some of the
lowercost airlines like Southwest that
do cater to uh people who are more
middle class, more costconscious? this
is the true test and whether we see that
K-shaped kind of economy. I wonder how
much Hilton's going to talk about that
in their uh in their press conference
later this morning.
>> Look out for that a little bit later. If
you're looking at the broader equity
market, we're doing okay. We're just
about unchanged on the S&P 500. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with Daryl
Kron of Wells Fargo as stocks are edging
lower. George Danericas of Canacord with
Tesla earnings on deck later on today
and Yolena Shaleta of the Conference
Board as we're counting down to CPI data
on Friday. We begin this hour with
stocks holding steady as Wall Street
awaits the next round of corporate
results. Daryl Kron of Wells Fargo
writing, "Based on our expectations for
accelerated earnings, we believe the
next 12 to 15 months will favor US
equities." Daryl joins us now for more.
Daryl, good morning.
>> Morning, John.
>> What is it about the US stock market
that this story is going to favor?
>> Well, I think it's a number of things.
Um, so beyond the earnings story, which
I think you guys have well socialized
and talk about and has kicked in, I
think you've got a lot of certainty that
is coming in vogue, right? I mean, we
know the Fed's going to cut interest
rates. We don't know exactly by how much
and when, but we have a a high degree of
certainty that monetary policy is going
to ease financial conditions over the
next 12 to 15 months. We know the fiscal
rules were playing by now. We had the
one big beautiful bill in July. There is
no one big beautiful bill 2.0 in the
remainder of this president's term. So
if corporate America is waiting around
for mergers and acquisitions and capex
and everything to kick in because they
were uncertain, let's say last April
with tariffs and liberation day, now
they're much more certain. And there's a
lot of stimulus corporately in that one
big beautiful bill. There's also a lot
of stimulus in there for the consumer as
well. I mean, there's going to be big
tax refunds in the first quarter next
year that people are underestimating
right now that will kick in. and and
history tells you the consumer spends
$1.17 of every dollar they get back in a
tax refund, right? So they overspend
what that is. So there's there's I think
a wave coming that will push through for
corporate America and continue to drive
that margin line and the bottom line
earning.
>> So the sector you like, your favorite is
financials. Just moments ago, the team
at Bloomberg broke a story. I'm going to
share it with you. Read as follows.
According to people familiar with the
matter, the Federal Reserve has shown
other US regulators the outlines of a
revised plan that would dramatically
relax a Biden era bank capital proposal
for Wall Street's largest lenders. I'll
spare everyone the details. You can read
through the details and have a look at
the story, but ultimately this feels
like the direction of travel. How big a
pillar is that of your long financials?
>> Um, so deregulation is a is a pillar and
it matters greatly to the GIFY banks,
right? I mean I I think to your point
about where Basel 3 was heading you know
say 12 18 months ago to where it is
today huge 180°ree turn just in the
sentiment I think what's more important
though is probably two other pillars one
is um you know M&A and capex spit
kicking in right so you get this whole
kind of you know um what we thought was
going to be the merger acquisition uh
cycle that was going to happen for all
25 that got delayed because of tariffs
and more importantly and most
importantly maybe is the right way to
say it we think we have a high
conviction the yield curve is going to
keep steepening, right? I know it's kind
of flattened the last couple weeks, but
but if you think about this, if the Fed
is going to cut interest rates and um
you're not going to get a recession,
right? Then those term premiums on
inflation and growth on the long end of
the curve have to come up, right? So,
the Fed's going to hold, let's say,
short-term rates, the long side comes up
steepening, right? If we're wrong and
that doesn't happen, let's say we're on
the precipice of a recession or a slower
event that we don't know, then what has
to happen? the Fed has to cut interest
rates more than what's projected by the
market right now drives the short end
down steepening right so in both cases
you know when you war game this out I
don't see a way that you don't end up
with a steeper curve steeper curve
favors financials
>> I'm looking right now uh on the heels of
what John was just talking about Bank of
America Wells Fargo JP Morgan the
Shire's uh futures all got a pop on the
heels of the latest note of of
deregulation that we're seeing I'm just
wondering whether this is a read through
to the broader economy or whether this
is a financial specific sector. I mean
this sort of the initial read on
earnings has been incredibly positive on
the backs of financials but financials
haven't been as tied to the broader
consumer economy as as much as in the
past. So how do you pair those stories?
Well, I think you know when you look at
the after last week's let's call it
credit scare right when the regional
banks and what's happening in some of
the private credit markets and stuff we
just don't see it right in the loan
portfolios the consumer remain strong
the small medium-sized businesses remain
strong right so the lending portfolios
of these banks are pristine then you
couple that with the investment banking
piece kicking in and really driving
earnings a steeper yield curve right all
the stars kind of line up now when you
get all the stars line The problem is
something could go wrong in that
equation, but we don't see it. To your
point on deregulation, though, I would
unequivocally say it's not simply a
financial story, right? It it spills
into the healthcare sector. It spills
into the energy sector, right? It spills
into frankly the industrial sector on
the on the um uh reshoring of of a lot
of the manufacturing, you know, and and
and that element. So, I think all of
that plays in and probably drives margin
and earnings into 2025. We're actually
it's 2026, sorry. We're actually very
bullish heading into next year.
>> So, when was the shift? Can you just
walk us through the psychology because I
remember talking to you a couple months
ago and you did not sound this positive
and a lot of people seemed a lot more
worried and suddenly everyone who comes
on the show, no one can kind of find the
real crack in this veneer right now.
They're trying, believe me. When did you
really start to say, "Hold on a second.
I need to upgrade my expectations and be
more prrisisk."
>> I think in the middle of the summer,
right? I think the summer when we
started to see where the Fed was taking
monetary policy, when we knew the fiscal
clarity was kicking in, you get these
big kind of multi-year secular trends of
the the the revitalization of
manufacturing, AI, of course, all that
stuff. Those are things that when you
get I wrote a piece here not so long ago
called you know getting through the
noise getting the signal above the noise
right and you start looking at these
secular trends that we think have legs
for maybe the next two to four 3 to 5
years they're powerful right and when
they all align simultaneously that
creates a unique environment that you
don't see very often right where you get
manufacturing kicking in you get
technology continuing to do well you get
monetary and fiscal policy alignment
right I mean all those things can
actually drive corporate earnings And
you also reduce some level of
uncertainty. I know the day-to-day noise
around uncertainty is high. You know,
whether we're going to have, you know, a
a G Trump meeting and, you know, all
those kind of things, but I think all of
that starts to come down and you look
through that out in the next two to four
years. I think America does really well
in the next couple years.
>> So, what worries you next year then if
you feel like you've gotten a lot of
clarity in 2025?
>> So, it's an interesting question. I
would say the three eyes, right? thing
that this is what I I wake up and kind
of pay attention to inflation of course
right which we'll get the reading Friday
um interest rates what happens because
you know if if interest rates come down
too far you have to start asking the
question why are they coming down so far
right there's a point where lower rates
is good and then all of a sudden lower
rates start to become bad and the third
one that doesn't maybe get as much
airtime is illquidity right I mean if
you look at what's happening in the repo
market you're seeing reserves drain down
in the banking system which is why I
think here in October how will come to
the table and say we're we're going to
start setting the stage to ending QT. QT
is worth by our math another 25 basis
point interest rate cut. So if we get a
25 in in actual Fed funds in October,
you get QT happening. There's another
25, you get 25 in December, right? All
that starts to add up.
>> When you say interest rates going so
low, you have to question why. Is it
because the economy is so bad or you
think they're being jawboned by the
White House?
Well, the reason might be the latter,
but I think when when you start getting
interest rates lower, you have to start
saying what's going on there, right? Is
it a true flight to quality or is it
just the whole curve shifting down,
right? And once once you get that flight
to quality element and narrative that
enters the discussion, that's where you
have to kind of pay attention. We're not
there yet. We don't think we're going to
be there, but that's what you would want
to watch for.
>> Fed race has gone quiet, hasn't it?
>> It has. Really sleeping
>> because they're cutting interest rates.
So there I don't think there's this
sense of urgency that Trump or Besson
had as they had in the summer.
>> Daryl, good to see you. You too.
>> Thank you, sir. Daryl Kron there of
Wells Fargo. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Let's cross over to Yahara for
more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Meta is looking to cut about
600 jobs from its AI unit. According to
a memo seen by Axios, the cuts will look
to make AI efforts more agile. At the
same time, Meta is expected to continue
hiring for its newer TBD lab, named that
since it doesn't have a name yet.
Affected employees will be encouraged to
apply for other jobs internally.
Meanwhile, peace talks between Russia
and Ukraine are showing signs of
stalling after White House sources said
there are no plans for a meeting between
President Trump and President Putin. The
leaders had been scheduled to meet in
Budapest within the coming weeks. The
Kremlin on Tuesday maintained that
Russia is sticking to its original
demands including Ukraine seed full
control of the Donetsk region
and Japanese Prime Minister Sai
Takayichi has ordered a fresh package of
economic measures to ease inflation. The
package will include subsidies for
electricity and gas charges during the
winter and regional grants to ease price
pressures. The package aims to
strengthen economic security and defense
and respond to US tariffs. Mr. Chenberg
brief. John
>> Yhierra, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Thank you very much. Up next,
the morning cause plus George Danaras of
Canacord with Tesla earnings on deck
later on today. That conversation up
next live from New York City. Good
morning.
[Music]
hearing CEOs like Goldman CEO talking
about okay we we now know what this
environment is deal making we think can
continue now I think you have you know
kind of an administration that's going
to say yes but also going back to the
story around rates I think you have
certainty on the rate story what a year
the banks have had so far. That was Phil
Campelli of JP Morgan Asset Management.
We just spoke to Daryl Kong. Favorite
sector. Guess what? Financials, the
banks. Equities at the moment on the S&P
500, just about unchanged. If you're
looking at the NASDAQ 100, we're down by
about 0.2%. On the Russell, we're down
by 0.4.
That's the price action. Let's get to
your morning calls. First up, Jeff
lowering its price target on Mattel to
23, emphasizing caution due to the toy
makers reliance on a strong holiday
season. Your second call from Morgan
Stanley raising its target on Hilton to
289, citing stabilizing trends and
better hotel development. And finally,
Piper Sandler cutting its target on
Netflix to 1,400 after earnings,
highlighting light operating income due
to a tax dispute in Brazil. The stock is
down by close to 8%. Let's stick with
the earnings. Tesla to report today
after the closing bell. Bloomberg's Fred
Rodell joins us now for more. Craig,
welcome to the program, sir. What a 24
hours for the likes of General Motors.
Do you think Tesla can repeat the act?
>> Yeah, I mean, it's going to be a tough
ask because uh on one hand, this is a
company that is coming off a really
solid quarter of of EV sales. They're
they're the most that they've had in a
quarter ever. And yet, uh the the sort
of go forward outlook, I think, is going
to be the real rub. And uh you know
we've heard that you know from Elon Musk
himself 3 months ago when he talked
about this notion that once we see EV
tax credits go away in the US that Tesla
could be in for in his words a few rough
quarters. And I think that's, you know,
sort of something that's reinforced by
what we heard from GM uh yesterday and
and in the leadup to their earnings that
this is a a case of of just a sort of
widely held view that EV uptake is going
to slow pretty dramatically in the US
without these incentives and that
leaves, you know, companies like Tesla
that only have that to offer in a a bind
for for quarters to come.
>> Craig, do you think there's the
potential for more positive framing of
the same story? With this in mind, GM
are pulling back, others are pulling
back. They're more of a pure play on
that story. Doesn't that give them the
space to succeed space they otherwise
wouldn't have had?
>> I I think you can try that. Uh I guess
the the concern is that yeah maybe you
have uh more of of the pie and yet uh
that pie is going to shrink so much uh
in in the US at least and it's already
the case that uh you know to to Tesla's
credit that they are so dominant in in
this uh segment of the market. So, uh,
even as we're seeing, uh, you know, the
likes of of GM and Ford saying, "Look,
we expect this to really shrink," it's
not as though they're completely doing
away with their their electric vehicle
models that they have on offer. They're
just sort of counting on demand for
those models, uh, you know, dropping
along with demand for, you know, the the
Teslas that are on the market. And so,
uh, you know, we can I I would not be
surprised if we heard some of that spin.
Uh, and I would sort of also anticipate
that Musk will lean into uh, you know,
sort of bright brighter, shinier objects
like humanoid robots and and uh,
driverless cars, but uh, but those are
are products also that Tesla has yet to
really commercialize in in any fashion.
>> Watch this space. Craig, thank you, sir.
Craig Trud of Bloomberg out of London.
Let's stick with Tesla. George Danericas
of Canacor Genuity remaining bullish
writing with momentum in near-term
estimates potential for new EVs a
continued expansion of the robo taxi and
the possibility of transformative
developments in humanoid robotics. We
reiterate our buy. George joins us now
for more. George, welcome to the show.
It's good to see you again. So, let's
talk about the quarter behind us. We're
looking for that boom juiced by the
expiry of tax credits. We had a lot of
people come on the program talking about
how they'd been buying an EV before the
interview even started, George. So, I
imagine we're going to see a lot of
that. George, the question for you is
what does the rest of the year look
like? What does early 26 look like? And
how rough could this be?
>> I think you guys sort of nailed it in
your previous discussion. In the near
term and maybe even the medium-term, the
issue is can they continue the momentum.
If you recall, the first two quarters of
the year were pretty bad for Tesla and
there was a rush in Q3 to buy EVs in the
US. But it wasn't only the US. I mean,
they released some new vehicles in China
that did incredibly well. So the
question for people is will we see a
sequential decline in Q4 and it's
normally an upsequential quarter and
what happens in 2026. The real question
here is what does the bridge look like?
In other words, when can robo taxi when
can human and robots kick in such that
they can continue the momentum in
earnings for years to come. What would
you hear, George, that would make you
think that maybe Tesla has to be valued
as a car company and not necessarily as
a company tied to self-driving and a
host of other technologies?
>> That's a great question and that's been
a question for I don't know 15 years.
You know, it Tesla should be valued like
a car company. Therefore, its earning
multiple should be really low and we
should look at comps like Toyota and GM.
But the I was a tech analyst for you
know over 15 years uh before I started
covering Tesla and and really this
reminds me of companies like Alphabet
like Amazon like Netflix and that was
the same debate shouldn't they be valued
like advertising companies or media
companies and when you have companies
that singularly disrupt end markets like
Tesla does it's really hard to apply the
same value valuation metrics to new
companies and so it's a debate that will
continue going forward. But we look at
Tesla as driving new innovations,
driving new markets. And they're
actually what they've done in the last
15, 20 years is they've created new
markets. I mean, they've created
essentially the EV market. They helped
create the energy storage market.
They're helping to create the robo taxi
market and they're helping to create the
humanoid robotics market. So, it's a
different paradigm that you in the lens
through which you have to look at Tesla.
>> I want to look at two aspects of that.
On one hand, you've got the full
self-driving uh and on the other hand,
you have the idea of humanoid robots.
With the full self-driving vehicles, I'm
just wondering how much Elon Musk was
set back based on the frayed
relationship that he has with President
Trump. There was this theory that he
would be in the front seat, not only
technologically, but also in being able
to roll out the robo taxi programs
because of a a sort of positive spin
coming from the White House. Can you
still lean on that? Is that still such a
push that will help them get this
through?
>> Those relationships are way above my pay
grade, but I think it is essential for
the United States to push forward on
autonomy, AI, and all in the list of
things that we need to do to compete
more effectively against China. So in
the medium to long term, despite the
volatility in those relationships, I
expect that the administration will push
forward and help ease the path for us to
be a leader in those markets and compete
more effectively against China. So look,
Tesla's one of the leaders in autonomy
and I continue to expect this deployment
to accelerate over time.
>> George, do you expect they'll get
squeezed out of a place like China? How
difficult is it to compete there? It's a
conversation we had with the GM CFO just
yesterday. We've often called it the
most competitive industry anywhere on
the planet. It's got to be the Chinese
EV market right now, George. Can they
stick with it?
>> That's another really great question. I
mean, Chinese EVs are remarkable and
they're the global leader in the space.
And what Tesla has done really
effectively is they've produced vehicles
at a very low cost relative. They've
done that on their own without really
over time government support. and they
have a feature set that's incredibly
effective and they've shown they're able
to compete in China against these
incredible companies in that country.
So, I continue to expect that they'll
trade well in China and that regardless
of what happens politically that to the
to the extent they have a place to
compete there, they'll retain market
share. And they've shown that time and
time again. People have counted them out
in China numerous times and they've just
introduced new models with new feature
sets that have effectively allowed them
to maintain this share that they have
for for several years.
>> So George, as you know, the big push now
technologically speaking, the
development is all going into autonomous
vehicles and robo taxis. George, what is
it about Tesla and the road it's chosen
to go down, forgive the pun, and the
road that Whimo is going down? Two
different technologies. Why is one
likely to be more successful than the
other?
>> That's a a re another really really
great question. So Tesla has effectively
built a neural network, all AI and
cameras to drive their vehicles which
allows them to have very quick scale,
right? Because those vehicles are on the
road already. Whimo has chosen to have
multiple sensor sets and more of a
hybrid solution to to solving the
problem. Some AI, a lot of AI, but also
software coding and guard rails on top
of it. that solution, that approach to
market doesn't let them scale as quickly
as Tesla will. There are many, many
skeptics around Tesla's approach just
because it may not be the safest and it
may have some uh issues on the road like
with night driving or driving in uh
inclement weather and we'll see how
effectively they can scale. There is uh
there's a really good podcast uh last
week from a guy named Andre Karpathy who
worked on the Tesla AI system. He was
the head of Tesla AI and he seems to
think that both Whimo and Tesla continue
to use a lot of network operators,
people, you know, at at network centers
that basically help them drive the
vehicle. So, we'll see how effectively
Tesla can scale and how uh quickly they
can wean off those network operators.
But these are two very different
approaches. One scales quickly and may
not be as safe, frankly, and the other
one scales slowly and is sort of
bulletproof, so to speak, in terms of
its safety. So, we'll see which one uh
wins the market, but they have very two
very different approaches and over time
we expect robo taxes to be wildly
successful in the US and globally.
>> George, just uh real quick here, we just
have about a minute. I'm just wondering
going forward if you think we're going
to be talking about humanoid robots for
Tesla as much as we're talking about
full self-driving.
>> Uh well, to a certain extent, we already
are. and our questions around
self-driving and and humanoids are are
the same with regard to how quickly they
can impact earnings. If you think about
humanoids, there was another really good
blog post. Uh this is last week or two
weeks ago and this is from the founder
of iRoot who suggested that teaching
robots dexterity might be much more
difficult than Tesla and other companies
think. So over the long term, humanoid
should be a very big market and Tesla
with its vertically integrated approach
should be wildly successful. But the
question is timing. How quickly can they
sell a million robots? I mean, uh Elon
Musk is out there giving some timets for
that to happen. Sometimes he's not so
good with his timetables, but he
eventually get gets the job done.
>> Look, uh it it's a market that we're
very very excited about, but again, it's
a question of timing, how quickly they
can impact earnings.
>> George, you're a gen thanks for joining
us. Appreciate it. Some optimism around
Tesla. George Jenneras there of Canacor
Genuity. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Yolena Shetva of the
Conference Board as we count you down to
CPI data on Friday. Plus, Danny's back
with your morning movers. GE Venova
climbing with big plans for powering AI.
That stock is up by 3.9%.
[Music]
The oven about 60 minutes away. Just
getting confirmation from the US trade
representative, Ambassador Jameson Greer
that he and Secretary Scott Basson of
the Treasury will be leaving today for
Malaysia to meet with Chinese
negotiators. They were speaking to the
press moments ago saying China and the
move on rare earth was quote aggressive.
We've heard that from Secretary Besson
as well. That's where the negotiations
are going to center around over the next
week. That and soybeans and a whole lot
more. Equity futures on the S&P 500 at
the moment going into the cash open just
about positive. We have gone 3 days
without gains, but the rally has kind of
stalled in the last 24 hours. This
market yesterday totally unchanged. With
more some movers into the morning
opening bell, let's get to Danny
Burgerer for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. It continues to be the big
mover of the morning and that is Netflix
and it is a move to the downside after
putting their earnings after the bell
yesterday. It was a tax charge in Brazil
that spooked the investor base of over
$300 million. They otherwise reported
some solid results. Maybe it should have
been better considering the popularity
of things like K-pop Demon Hunter and a
live sport event. Shares down just under
8% this morning. Elsewhere, you get that
feeling of the meme stock mania. Beyond
Meat up 77.9%.
It is almost up 1,300%
in the past 4 days. What's been driving
it? There was a social media user who
basically posted his thesis on why
Beyond Meat should do well. That was
apparently enough. You get a lot of
short covering and there you go, a big
old move for Beyond Meat. Finally, some
earnings back here in the real world. GE
Vernovia reporting the huge demand they
have. They are an energy company. You
can guess where this is going. Their gas
turbines, the hyperscalers, they say,
are circling around them. To give you a
sense of how things are growing
typically and historically 10% of their
business has been hyperscalers, a third
of their orders going forward are now
coming from hyperscalers. So, it is
moving in that direction with this huge
energy demand. Shares up 4.2%. John,
>> some of these stories used to be
defensive. Utilities defensive. Not
anymore. It's just the tech trade all
over. Danny, thank you. Thank you.
>> And when you talk about people uh with
the tech trade, their angle in is
diversification, which means look for
other energy companies that maybe
haven't been bid up as much. So, you're
right. Are they defensive or maybe they
have a very different characteristic at
this point?
>> Fantastic profile over the weekend at
Barretts of Constellation Energy and its
CEO. That stock year today up by about
60%. We'll leave that story there. Let's
stick with earnings. Shares of Battel
taking a hit as retailers delay orders
over tariff uncertainty. Bloomberg's
Ender Curran joins us now for more.
Ender, we're starting to see it. Might
not be a big stock market issue, but a
company turning ground and saying some
retailers are holding back, waiting for
clarity. How much of an economic issue
might that be?
>> Well, it's a big question, big missing
piece of the jigsaw. When will these
tariffs start to flow through to more
broadly goods on the shelf? Jonathan and
you know this warning from Mattel on the
one hand that tariffs are impacting its
delivery of its goods reflects what a
lot of companies tell us all the time
that they've managed this process up to
now. Either they have absorbed the
tariffs or they've asked their suppliers
to absorb the tariffs. But at some point
that part of the equation will have to
give and they will pass those costs on
the consumer. That's the big question
over the coming months. Now to be clear,
we haven't yet seen broad-based
inflation from tariffs and even Mattel
made the point that consumer demand
remains resilient. We saw lots of other
consumer brands doing well also in this
earning season, Coca-Cola and GM and the
like. So clearly there's strength out
there, but this question mark about when
the tariffs will eventually hit home
remains an open one, I think, for for
economists
>> and and it's an open question as to
whether the Fed will respond to it or
should respond to it. And based on what
we've heard from Chairman Pal, he's
saying got up this whole market just to
ignore it. It's kind of bizarre that
we've got no data right now. Ender and
even the data we do have, the market's
prepared to ignore inflation CPI on
Friday. The amount of notes that I've
read that have basically said it doesn't
matter what that inflation number looks
like on Friday. This Fed cuts a week
today. And uh do you and the team see it
the same way?
>> H we are in a bizarre space, Sean.
That's the only way to describe it.
Look, if you were to just go face value
with the data that we had up to the
lockdown and maybe some of those private
indicators up to now, you could say it
suggested labor market remains soft, but
the inflation story hasn't gone away.
The Fed will carry on with their cut in
October. That's been all of the public
utterances, but really after that, it
becomes a much more complicated story.
Jonathan, to your point, what happens if
we get the data back on tap and it does
suggest that the labor market maybe is
so so if not softening, but inflation
remains persistent. We know there are
plenty of officials on the Fed board who
have concerns about inflation. So, you
know, that cut next week in in this
month of October seems a luck, but in
the months ahead is probably going to be
a much more complicated story.
>> And thank you and Karen down in
Washington DC. Sticking with tariffs,
Yolena Chilva of the Conference Board
writing the following. US rule GDP
growth is projected to slow to around
1.5% next year as higher tariffs raise
consumer prices and dampen spending.
Yolena, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> 1.5% below where the Fed is. Well, yes
and I think the reason we are expecting
such a slowdown is that uh because we
think we have not seen the full impact
of tariffs just yet. Companies may be
adjusting to the ways tariffs operate
and like they're shifting some uh sales
and inventory accumulation but uh the
problem is that consumers have not fully
uh seen it and that is all happening uh
against the backdrop of higher health
care costs uh rising insurance costs and
things that we don't really necessarily
talk about in everyday life but it's
just an add-on to rising costs for the
consumer and I think that will weaken
GDP growth more than probably we'll see
the inflationary impacts.
>> I'm having this sort of emotional yin
and yang. On one hand, we've got
investment managers who come on set and
they talk about how everything is
awesome. It's Goldilocks and that they
actually see disinflation coming down
the pike from rent and from other uh
from other aspects of the CPI and and
and the core PCE. And then economists
come on and they say actually growth
isn't that great and inflation's going
to pick up. Why is it that there is such
dissonance right now?
>> So, uh we look into um u intelligence we
collect from companies as well. So, at
the conference board, we have the CEO
confidence survey and the latest survey
showed um companies are still kind of on
the uh edge like they are uh well maybe
we're not going to grow that much but we
are not that concerned either. So,
what's interesting in the survey is that
uh companies are concerned about the
outlook. So that has worsened a little
bit in the survey but they are more
confident about the outlook for their
own industries. So what it tells us is
that uh companies are adjusting to the
new reality with tariffs. So the tariff
shock is probably behind the initial
like psychological shock but the impact
for the consumers I think is still ahead
of us and the holiday season will be a a
major test. So this is something that
even the retailers are saying and Mattel
is saying that their uh orders are
reacelerating in the fourth quarter. We
hear from a lot of investment managers
as well as CEOs that there does seem to
be this reaceleration. What would you
have to see to say maybe I'm wrong? You
know, maybe that some of these surveys
aren't indicating the reality which is
something a lot more positive.
>> Absolutely. I think we have seen that
consumers have been very resilient this
year and that totally surprised uh to
the upside. uh they that surprised our
projections uh for slower and and
quicker deceleration. I think the
holiday season is the major test to
consumer tolerance. We pass that into Q1
and if consumers are still resilient uh
that would be a big thing for me to to
uh consider revisions. When you look at
how much these companies are absorbing
tariffs, what is the paper tariff level
and then what are they actually paying?
>> Absolutely. So if you just look at some
kind of an average on the paper, it's
like around 20% roughly speaking. But if
uh you know look at duty collections and
uh compare it to imports, it's around
11%. So that kind of tells you maybe
there's more to come and companies did
all this shifting uh and you know uh for
the supply chains and things like that
and maybe there's more to come and it
all depends on what happens to tariffs
uh next. We haven't settled on that one.
No, we haven't. And potentially we're
going to get a big meeting between the
two biggest economies. Another issue a
lot of CEOs talked about in your survey
was AI and what that means for job
growth. They think it is going to change
how they hire, but they're not seeing it
yet. When will they actually start to
change how they recruit and hire?
>> So it major big thing for all companies.
They all mentioned that andif like a lot
of them saying that it will change the
way we hire but they don't see that
happening like the majority of them uh
don't see that happening until after two
years so three to five year horizon. So
we're in that moment where we see
downside risks to the economy but maybe
over the longer run uh that's what
happens. AI is a big deal and it's
everywhere. Everybody's talking about
it. Everybody's uh seeing productivity
driving growth going forward.
>> How do you think the Fed's going to
handle this moment and is its dual
mandate fit for purpose?
>> Absolutely.
>> When you think about the future of
growth, I mean, let's just play it out.
You could have a situation, at least in
the near term, where it's high energy
intensive and low labor intensive
growth, how problematic is that for a
Federal Reserve with a dual mandate of
full employment and a price target of
2%.
>> Well, they have to raise it implicitly
or explicitly. And uh but again there
are so many unknowns in the short run
including the new Fed chair and things
like that. So it it's a tough situation
for the Fed at the moment and I think
the risks to the labor market are still
real in the near term.
>> That's certainly what they're
prioritizing. That's for sure. Elena,
good to see you as always. Yolena there
of the conference board. We had this
conversation with Governor Waller last
week at least briefly. He was like this
is the jaw mandate I've got. This is
what I've got to follow. I I just wonder
if that's going to be up for debate in
the next few years. If the dynamics
behind what drives growth, what's behind
it, how energy intensive it's what's
going to be, what it could mean for
payrolls, for jobs, whether they're
going to have to change the way they
think about things.
>> You could argue it already has affected
the way that they think about things.
And you could say that that really began
after 2008 and the scarring that
happened with the labor market, that
there has been a real prioritization of
the labor market over price stability.
And you could argue that is the reason
why this Fed has been complacent with
the idea of letting inflation remain so
far above its target for so long at the
expense of at least trying to protect
the labor market. AI this morning is
bringing together unlikely bedfellows.
Steve Bannon, Prince Harry signing up to
the same statement regarding super
intelligence of AI and what that can
mean for humanity long term. What you're
talking about in three years that's
right around the presidential election
is going to have huge political
implications.
>> Yeah, massively. And it could be for the
midterms already by the way with the
energy story picking up across this
country. Equity futures on the S&P just
about unchanged in about 50 minutes
time. We'll get the opening bell into
that. Stocks going nowhere with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to you
Hyra for more. Hey Hyra.
>> Hi John. The Federal Reserve has shown
other regulators revised plans to relax
a bank capital proposal for Wall Street
and it's lower than previous estimates
that were floated. sources telling us
here at Bloomberg, some officials have
calculated the terms would lead to an
increase of about 3 to 7% in aggregate
for most big banks. The Fed's new plan
could be unveiled as soon as the first
quarter of 2026.
Meanwhile, Apple's iPhone Air is off to
a slow start in China. Its launch drew
curiosity, but no big crowds, which is
in stark contrast to the iPhone 17 roll
out. Meanwhile, Nick A is also reporting
that Apple is drastically cutting iPhone
Air production orders and boosting those
for other iPhone 17 models. And the NBA
season tipped off last night and
delivering a thrilling opening night
double header. The NBA champion Oklahoma
City Thunder defeated the Houston
Rockets in a double overtime thriller
125 to 124 led by a clutch performance
by reigning MVP Shay Gilgis Alexander.
Elsewhere, the Golden State Warriors
defeated the Lakers 119 to 109 behind 31
points from Jimmy Butler. That's
Bloomberg brief. John
>> product sucks. Zero interest. It's how I
feel about basketball every single time.
>> I know just it peaked in the ' 90s and
never made a comeback.
>> You know, we had a discussion about
basketball last night. People in the
house enjoyed it.
>> They were arguing about what's a sport
and what's not a sport and the idea that
basketball is very much a sport.
>> There was debate on golf. Okay,
>> there was debate on some of the other
things and sort of a question around
peak age and if you have to be if you
can be 45 and still at your peak, is
that really a sport?
>> I used to think about that for golf and
then I played
>> and I was like, "Oh, okay."
>> You walked 18.
>> Yeah, totally.
>> Not only that, like the way you hit it,
>> all all the movement in your legs, it
actually But you know, it's hard. And
then I was like, "Okay, now I agree this
is a sport."
>> I couldn't do the Rory Moy workout. You
ever seen that?
>> No.
>> Yeah, that's intense stuff. I I couldn't
do that. Honestly, the fact that this
was the discussion, not what is your
basketball team, tells you everything.
>> Exactly. They're not engaging. Exactly.
Right. There you go. True.
>> Up next on a program setting you up for
the day ahead. Plus, Christian Müller at
Goldman Sachs with more on this market
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
We're actually very bullish heading into
next year. I know the day-to-day noise
around uncertainty is high, but I think
all of that starts to come down and you
look through that out in the next 2 to
four years, I think America does really
well in the next couple years. That's
the positive constructive call from
Daryl Kron of Wells Fargo. As we came
down to the opening value, scores look
like this. Equity futures on the S&P 500
drifting just a little bit higher.
Positive by a tenth of 1%. I was so
harsh on the NBA. I'm sorry. It's great
to see it back on NBC. Bit of nostalgia.
>> Put that back in the bottom. Got to try
and bottle it back up.
Berlin's excited, I'm sure.
>> Just towards the end of the show, you
get a bit, you know,
>> you get a little punchy and start being
too honest.
>> Just a little bit too.
>> This is for you.
>> Next month.
>> Next month. Yeah.
>> All right. Okay. Expensive to go and
watch that, isn't it?
>> Okay. It's unbelievable. But not as
yourself.
>> It just It comes right back out again. I
can't. That's going over to Madison
Square Garden. No, thank you.
>> Oh my god. The worst.
>> No. No. Hold on. We've been to an It's a
lot of fun. It's also very expensive and
it's a horrible area. Okay.
>> All right. I agree on all points.
>> All right. Okay. Good. Okay. Let's get
back to the market. Christine Mlyman of
Goldman Sachs. I tried just, you know,
>> just inauthentic.
>> Absolutely. They just crashed.
>> This is what Christian's got to say.
Outside of the US, investor allocations
to equities are generally lower, but in
most markets, they have also increased.
Notably, aggregate equity allocations
now surpassed peaks from the late 1990s.
I'm pleased to say that Christian's
actually with us in the studio.
Christian, good morning. It's good to
see you, sir. You put out a note
recently, a big paper, investing in
everything everywhere all at once. Can
you share us with what you and the team
found looking at that? Yeah, I mean
listen, I think we tried this this this
kind of experiment of trying to map
literally every asset that exists in the
world kind of we found like roughly 270
trillion and we tried to understand on
the one hand what can you actually get
in terms of performance by by literally
just buying everything which is already
interesting and and we found it's quite
easy to outperform that portfolio
actually but also within that portfolio
you get some very interesting
concentrations asset bubbles over time
because we go back to World War II and
it shows you also it's a major influence
on investor asset allocations. You
mentioned it just like the fact that
equities since the global financial
crisis have done really really well
especially in the US has meant that
literally everywhere in the world equity
allocations have moved up a lot in the
US is most extreme where you actually
despite the fact that the equity weight
in the world portfolio is not at tech
bubble levels investor allocations are
actually at tech bubble levels so
they're a bit ahead you could say
>> this raises lots of questions now
typically we talk about a 60/40 what's
the share of equities bonds in that
everything everywhere all at once. And
how are olds starting to participate and
grow as a portion of the share?
>> Yeah, I mean listen, I think um if you
look at the weight right now it's 50%.
So it's a bit smaller than the 6040. Um
but if you look in the tech bubble peak
you at 63. Um if you look in the 60s
nifty50 bubble you were at 60. So you
you know this is actually quite an
instant statistic to tell you that maybe
we're not in a bubble yet. as a
proportion of financial assets. Equities
are not as extreme as they were in
previous um equity bubbles. So from that
perspective, it's gone up a lot the
weight. It's pushed kind of the equity
allocations of investors up a lot, but
it doesn't look as extreme.
>> All I can say is you could make make an
argument if you have uh more extreme
valuations and more extreme allocations
to equities that would be bearish. Most
people have come on and said actually
that's bullish because it's not fully at
the bubble level and you might as well
ride the bubble train as long as it
keeps bubbling. Is that kind of where
you are too?
>> Well, the way I would put it is like the
the current backdrop um the late cycle
backdrop with a lot of policy easing as
you were discussing earlier. The labor
market is very weak but the corporate
sector is strong and we've seen it
before. You actually had similarities in
the late '9s where you also had the
Asian financial crisis at the time
forced the Fed to cut into a late cycle
backdrop with the technology revolution
which ended up in a tech bubble. And in
the mid60s you had the great society
program coming after the Vietnam war a
lot of fiscal easing um into a kind of
like stability bubble like the Nifty50
bubble driving up valuations. So I don't
think it's completely crazy to see
equities being very well supported right
now by the macro. It's an uncomfortable
backdrop because it's not the usual type
of growth goes up without inflation.
Everything is fine. Let's buy equities.
It's much more driven by liquidity and
it's much more driven by structural
themes like AI and fiscal debasement.
And both of those themes are actually
quite good for equities. So I would say
at this point we are not necessarily
worried about the investor asset
allocations. We are in the medium-term
worried. The same with valuations. A lot
of these metrics, they mean revert in
the very long run. But in in the very
short term, we're not necessarily
worried because of that.
>> The idea of debasement being good for
equities, particularly in the United
States, might be true if you are dollar
denominated, less true if you are coming
from Europe. And I do wonder how
difficult it is for European investors
to invest in the US, whether they want
to invest in the US, whether they decide
to hedge. I mean, have we seen that
Europe US trade reverse? Because earlier
it was sell the US and now it's maybe
not.
>> I think it's a good point. I think after
liberation day, there was this very
short-term repatriation where European
investors actually sold US equities and
and bought domestic equities. That has
completely reversed since the summer. We
actually see more inflows into US
equities. And what we are discussing
with asset owners is really a bit like
with the total portfolio approach which
kind of more and more comes into the
investing scene in the in the asset
owner space is you got to ask yourself
what are the long-term structural
exposures you want and we always say you
want to have a combination of exposure
to innovation and protection from
inflation which includes the debasement
and innovation the US and China and a
few places in the world they just have
the best companies they have the
liquidity they have the access and You
can't really find that domestically. So,
you go where you can domestically for
protecting inflation, for finding
debasement, for finding interesting
long-term uh kind of stories for cash
flow growth, um real cash flow growth,
but the innovation you have to get in in
places like the US.
>> How different are the conversations on
either side of the Atlantic?
I think broadly one similarity we have
is people are quite cautious and I think
that's so interesting with the equity
markets having done so well we don't
really see that in our conversations we
don't really see that in our sentiment
and and and positioning metrics the
institutional community which are mainly
investors I speak to they are um
cautious they're cautious about the the
labor market of course they're skeptical
and and worried about the AI ecosystem
and similarities to previous bubbles
exactly what you said Um the main
difference I guess is that everybody
always seems to be a bit more bearish I
noticed on on where they are. Um that is
really weird but I I really noticed that
like when you go to Italy to France uh
when you go to even the US here since
I've been here like people generally are
quite worried about their domestic
political situations people are a bit
more more cynical about like the long
run outlook for their countries. Um, so
like the the the Europeans, they look a
lot to the US at things being much
better here because you have the
innovation, you have the wealth effects,
you have a lot of things going right,
but when you meet the US investors here,
there's still a lot of concerns.
>> There is a disconnect and there's an
obvious one. If you look at the European
growth story right now, it's pretty
awful. It's not great. The ECB's
forecasting 1% and everyone's saying
success, 1% growth. And I think that you
look at the growth profile of Europe
right now and compare it to the massive
outperformance we've seen in Euroside
banks trying to work out what gives here
into next year.
>> Yeah. I mean it's it's coming back a bit
to what what banks are. Banks are carry
trade like they're making money when
when things are good in terms of net
interest margin. They don't really need
growth. Growth is an upside story which
I think we haven't had in the Europe a
long time. So so growth hasn't really
driven banks in a big way. So it's a
carry trade and the current backdrop is
very conducive for carry trades and and
to me I think the European story next
year with the German fiscal spend might
look a bit more growthy. There might be
a bit more reflation and everybody I
speak to is incredibly cynical and
skeptical about that. Everybody says
yeah Germany committed to a lot of
fiscal spend but they probably won't
manage to deploy it. There will be
bureaucracy. it will not slow down and
and and our economists have actually
been saying that probably already this
year because Germany publishes the
fiscal um kind of spend every month
there will be the first upside surprises
so investors I think are not positioned
for that
>> what's growthy in Europe
>> well I mean you have obviously specific
areas like linked to fiscal spending
fiscal infrastructure defense these are
areas that are often mentioned I think
the big story to me is if you go a bit
more reflationary savings rates in
Europe since co have been much much
higher and and actually not come down at
all. So you know you don't have the
wealth effects um like in the US um but
but there is savings there is a lot of
liquidity that's being trapped and and
liquidity often follows confidence. So
if you get a bit more of a reflationary
shift driven by a few industries might
be fiscally driven that possibly drives
a bit more consumer reflation.
>> Get the regulators to get out the way
and things can improve. Kristen it's
good to see you.
>> Thanks for sharing your thoughts. Really
thoughtful stuff. Christine Müerlyman
there of Goldman Sachs. Coming up
tomorrow, here's your lineup. Cameron
Dawson of New Edge Wealth, Dan Ies of
Wedbush, the former Boston Fed president
Eric Rosenrren, and Liz Thomas of SoFi
from New York City this morning. Good
morning to you all. This was Blimbe
Surveillance.
[Music]